[MUSIC PLAYING]

So we have used a regression model to compute the seasonal components
and the trend components of this electric time series or more
specifically, the log of the electric time series.
And we've seen that fits pretty well, but there's still some residual there.
So let's have a look at that and see if we can do something
with an ARIMA model of that residual.
So on my screen here, I have some code where we can start doing just that.
And the first thing we need to do is just have a look at that residual.
Let's see what it looks like.
So it zigs and zags.
It's pretty random.
Might have a little bit of a random walk aspect to it
so we need to keep our eye on that.
But when we look at the distribution-- both the histogram and the QQ plot--
it looks pretty close to normal.
And one question, is this stationary?
So we we'll apply what's the Dickey-Fuller test here
and we'll look at what the result is.
And you can see, it's marginal at 95%.

The p-value is a little large at 0.056, roughly.
But say, at 90% confidence interval, we would
say that we would accept the null hypothesis
or the alternative hypothesis that it is, in fact, a stationary time series.
So we're going to go with that assumption.
And in the real world, there's always some gap there
and you can't be super strict with this or you'll never do anything.
So we're going to use our step ARIMA function that we've used before,
but we're going to use maximum orders of 4, 3, 4.
And we'll have a look at what happens here.

So we tried quite a few combinations with that grid search.
We found the best order was a 3, 0, 3 model
and it had this BIC of minus 1890.
But that's a pretty high order model so I'm wondering,
let's just test how well that computes just on its own.
So we'll use our model _arima function we've used a bunch of times now.
And we're going to compute that.
So first off, we'll look at the p-values.
They're all very small.
The confidence intervals for these coefficients
don't seem to include zero so that's all good.
But there's this warning, and it's saying
that the inverting Hessian failed.
Maximum likelihood to fail to converge.
So it may be that this is a little high order model.
Maybe it's a little unstable.
So the next best model was a 2, 0, 0 model-- much lower order--
but next best.
I determined that by scrolling through this entire list of BICs
and finding the next smallest one, from minus 1890.
So it's quite a different model really, but it had a little bit worse BIC.
So we see pretty narrow confidence intervals on the model coefficients
and again, very small p-values.
And no warning method about being unstable.
So let's go with that.

So what we've done now is we've found an ARIMA model that, we hope,
fits the residual after we had subtracted out the seasonal and trend
components of the time series.
And we tested two different candidates actually,
and found the more complicated one might have some computational problems
so we're going to go with the simpler model.
That's always a good idea.
If you can find a simpler model that's almost as
good as the complicated model, the simpler model
is just less likely to go wrong and to generalize well.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
