[MUSIC PLAYING]

We've looked at a autoregressive, or AR, process.
We've looked at a moving average, or MA, process.
We've looked at an autoregressive moving average, or ARMA, process.
But this whole section was titled, autoregressive integrative moving
average so what's the integrative part?
The integrative part being a random walk component.
And that can be of different orders.
It can be first order, second order, et cetera.
And recall, that earlier in this lesson, we generated a first order random
walk because we simply did the cumulative sum
of a set of normal innovations.
And we got something that just--
a time series that wandered off and had very non-stationary properties.
So let's have a look at a simple model that we
can use to model that kind of random walk and remove that component.
So on my screen here, recall, we called that random walk time
series we generated previously, walk.
And so if we do walk.diff--
diff is a first order difference operator.
You can change this argument, it could be second or third order.
In this case, we're just going to do first order.
And walk_diff is the resulting time series.
And it'll be one lag short because you have to keep computing differences.
So we can plot that and we'll just look at what that looks like.
And you can see, it looks pretty darn random.
So we went from a random walk which just walked off in one direction,
was very non-stationary.
To this time series, which is more random.
It sticks to zero.
There doesn't seem to be any particular trend or seasonality.
There's a few big innovations here, but generally, it's pretty much random.
And that's what we expected by doing a first order difference on a first order
random walk.
So the point is, we had a first order random
walk where we took just the cumulative sum of a set of normal innovations.
We called that series, walk.
We then, did first order differencing on it and what we're left with
is what appears to be a white noise series.
And now it will be up to you to look at some other properties of that series
and decide whether it's really white and stationary.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
