[MUSIC PLAYING]

So we've looked at aesthetics for projecting additional dimensions.
But there's one other aesthetic I wanted to show you,
which has nothing to do with that.
But it has everything to do with how people will perceive your plot.
And that's the aspect ratio of your plot.
If you, say, use a high-aspect ratio plot,
it's going to be sort of long and skinny.
Or a low-aspect ratio plot might be tall and skinny on the x-axis.
So the way you pick aspect ratio can completely change people's perception.
It changes the slopes of lines.
It changes how a set of points seems to increase a lot or maybe not.
So don't just pick some arbitrary aspect ratio.
If you really want to understand what's going on,
you may have to play around with this and find what aspect ratio actually
shows what you're using.
And also, you'll probably see that some aspect ratios
obfuscate important relationships.
So on my screen here, I have a little demo of that.
Recall, we plot at the sunspot data.
And I'm just going to scroll back up here.
And I'll show you.
Just keep this in mind.
And there's an aspect to this sunspot data that's probably hard to see.
You can see it's periodic.
And I told you, it's about an 11-year period.
But there's something about how each of these cycles is structured that's--
maybe you can see it here, maybe you can't.
I see it, because I know what I'm looking for.
I'm not sure someone just coming onto this would.
But let's change the aspect ratio.
And you'll see something maybe kind of interesting.
So how do I do that?
So I've changed the aspect ratio to 6--
when I set the fig size to 6 by 1.5.
So this is going to be a long, skinny plot area that I'm creating.
Everything else is the same as what I did before for plotting
the line plot or the time series plot.

All right, so now we can see this.
And what's, to me, more apparent here is look at the shapes of these.
And you notice that most of these 11-year cycles
seem to start very strongly.
The numbers of spots goes up really fast.
And then it decays very slowly.
Especially, you can see it in this cycle, or maybe,
like, the cycle, or this cycle.
So by increasing the aspect ratio but reducing how big a physical range
we're plotting this vertical number, the number of spots,
we bring out an aspect of this data that probably wasn't obvious to people
just coming into this cold.
So keep that in mind.
Aspect ratio can really change people's perception
or obfuscate it if you pick the wrong one for any kind of plot
you're creating.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
