[MUSIC PLAYING]

So let's look at how we can compute and display
the autocorrelation function and the partial autocorrelation function.
Recall, that the autocorrelation function
is the correlation of the time series with itself at different lag values--
fairly simple.
The partial autocorrelation function is the autocorrelation function
of the time series with itself at different lag values,
but removing the autocorrelation effect from smaller lags--
a little bit harder to wrap your head around that.
But they're distinct measures of how the time series
values are related one to the other.
So my screen here, I have some very simple code that actually does this.
So in statsmodels.graphics.tsaplots, I'm going to import that as SPLT.
And within that library, there's plot.acf and plot.pacf,
which do exactly what you expect.
And so, I'm going to do this for 40 lag values and we'll see what happens.
And we're doing that for the white noise series
we looked at in the previous sequence.
So first up is the partial autocorrelation function.
The blue area here-- the area in this blue shaded area--
is a 95% confidence interval.
So basically, any values within or close to that, we say are effectively zero.
And so you see, only zero lag of the partial autocorrelation
has a value of 1, which by definition, it must have--
that's axiomatic.
And you see, no other partial autocorrelation values are significant.
We go to the autocorrelation function, it's exactly the same.
It's got a zero lag value of 1, which it must have.
The series is perfectly correlated with itself, at zero lag.
There are no other really significant autocorrelation values
at any other lag.
Let me just give you a side note here-- if you work with some other more
stats-oriented packages--
like R, or SPSS, or something like that-- you
may see plots where the partial autocorrelation zero lag
value is not plotted.
That's by the convention in statistics.
This plot that is used in [? site by stats, ?] is more following
an engineering convention where you do plot the zero lag value
for partial autocorrelation.
So don't be confused by that.
But what's the big takeaway here?
The big takeaway is there effectively is no autocorrelation because we said,
those values were generated from independent identically distributed
values so there's no change in variance.
There's no dependency from one value to the other on the previous values
in the time series.
So they're independent identically distributed.
There's no autocorrelation, except at zero, which is effectively,
proof that we do indeed, have a stationary time series because there's
no change in variance.
There's no dependency in time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
