
So the first chart type we're going to look at is a bar plot.
And a bar plot is a way to show the frequency
of some categorical variables.
So you have multiple categories.
You want to display, you know, which one is
the most frequent maybe to the least frequent, or maybe the least frequent
to the most frequent.
You use a bar plot.
It's a very simple plot type.
So let me show you how you make one with Python.
So on my screen here I have the code to do that.
One thing you should always keep in mind when
you're using any of those plotting methods that are based on Mathplotlib,
whether it's Panda's plotting, Mathplotlib itself, Seaborn, et cetera,
is if you're working in the Jupyter Notebook and you want to see the plot,
you need to give what's called this magic command where the percent says,
OK, it tells Jupiter I'm going to give you a magic commend.
In this case, it's a command for Mathplotlib.
And the command is in line.
That means display the graphic in line.
OK?
So if you don't see your plots displaying
in a Jupyter Notebook or your Python plots,
it's probably because you forgot to include this magic command.
You only need it once per notebook.
But if you haven't run that, it's not going to work.
OK.
So here we've got, again, our auto price data frame
and quite a bit of code here to the right, some of which looks similar.
Because we did a fair amount of this when we looked at frequency tables.
So up to this point where we do the aggregation,
all that is just building a frequency table.
And I've introduced one new bit here just for efficiency, this lock method.
And so I want all the rows.
That's why I have just the colon comma there.
And I just want these two columns.
OK.
So it works pretty much like the square bracket,
except you just have to have this little bit of extra syntax here.
And it's just a more efficient way of subsetting a Panda's data frame.
And then, again, in this case, I'm going to group by body style.
And I'm going to count the body style or how many cars are in each body style.
And then I'm going to put that count into plot.bar, so the plot
method and then bar.
So it's a specific plot type.
So just keep that in mind.

You know, most of this, all this on the left,
is just building a frequency table.
This little bit at the end here on the right is plotting that frequency table.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And we've got our frequency.
You can see sedans.
You know, we've only got 195 cases in this data set.
And you can see 90-some.
So almost half are sedans.
Hatchbacks are pretty common.
Convertibles-- not so many convertibles, not so many hard tops,
and a few wagons, et cetera.
You can kind of see that convertibles are less frequent than hardtops.
But it's not that clear.
So it'd be easier to understand if we had this ordered.
And so what we can do is everything here is the same, except I've
added this sort values of the counts.
So remember, count is an aggregation method.
Counts was a column we added.
That's just the counts.
So we're going to sort the values by the counts and then make the bar plot.

And there's another argument to sort values ascending or descending.
Ascending happens to be the default. And so now
I can definitely see that convertibles are the least frequent.
Sedans are the most frequent.
And think about this.
We only have five categories here.
But if I had like 100 categories, maybe by sales agent or something like that,
having them ordered would improve my perception
of how they rank by sales volume or something like that.
And also, when you present a plot like this to your colleagues,
having it ordered so they don't have to sit there
and their eyes don't have to go back and forth
and back and forth trying to figure this out would really help them.

So that's a simple plot chart type.
But it's a very powerful plot type.
Because we can simply show it's a way to visually display
a frequency table, a bar plot.
