
So we just looked at one display that lets
us look at the frequency of a numeric variable histogram.
It's the most commonly used one.
But let's look at some others.
First one we're going to look at is what's called a box plot.
And box plots are widely used and sometimes not very well understood.
So let's start by just trying to understand how you read a box plot.
So on my screen here I have this little cartoon that explains a box plot.
So we've got the first quartile, the median, or second quartile,
and the third quartile, OK?
So 25% of our values have to be to the left of the first quartile,
25% of our values have to be to the right of the first quartile.
25% percent have to be between the first quartile and the median and 25%
have to be between the median and the third quartile.
OK?
So that's the important thing about this.
It's just showing you sort of a nonparametric or quartile display.
And we put what we call these whiskers on the positive and negative side.
And they're simply whatever the first quartile
is minus 1.5 times the interquartile range or plus 1.5 times
this interquartile range out the ends.
Now, if we don't have any values that extreme,
we simply truncate the whisker at the most extreme value.
If we have values more extreme, we'll actually display some kind of symbol.
In some plotting packages, it's a little dot or a circle
or a plus sign, something to show that there's outliers beyond this range
or below that range.
OK?
So that's how you interpret a box plot.
And let's go ahead make a box plot.
We've been using pandas plotting methods up till now
where I directly operated on a data frame.
The methods were applied using the dot operator to the data frame.
In this case, I'm going to go and just use matplotlib's box plot.
I'll show you where I'm going with that in a minute.
But partly, I want you to see that you can often
do these same plots multiple ways.
But there's more to the story, which we'll get to.
So basically, you could write this all out as matplotlib.pyplot.boxplot.
But in this case, I'm going to import matplotlib.pyplot as plt, P-L-T. OK?
And I'm just going to use the box plot method.
I'm just going to apply it to that one column, price.
OK?
And here we go.
There's a number of things we can see about this.
First off, you can see at 5,000, that's where the end of the whisker is.
So that's 25% of our values.
That's 25% of our values.
Again, it's showing that strong skew.
You know, right away you can see the median,
that red bar is more to the downside in the box, more to the low in that box.
So you can see the skew.
You can also see that this whisker is short, this whisker is long.
Not only is this whisker long, so that's the 1 and 1/2 times
that interquartile range, this range here.
But look at how many plus signs there are.
And each one of those plus signs is an outlier going all the way
up to about 45,000 here.
So we very quickly visually see that we have
a highly skewed distribution with a lot of the values clumped down low here.
And then a lot of values really stretched out.
That last 25% of the values are the highest 25% of the values.
OK, so you're looking at this and saying, well, OK,
but I could see that same thing with a histogram in more detail.
Yes, and that's true and I'll show you some advantages of a box plot
here in a minute.
But in the meantime, I wanted to show you something else.
Notice that this figure isn't very satisfactory.
There's no axis label.
So over here on the left, there's numbers.
And we know their price.
But if I was showing this to the boss, how would
that person know that that's price.
It could be litters of milk produced or it could be anything, right?
You have no idea.
And then number one isn't a very interesting label for the x-axis.
Right?
And also, there's no title.
So we don't know what relationship we're showing here.
But with matplotlib, we can fix all that.
And we can do more.
So first off, we can set up a figure.
And we can use the figure method and we can set a size.
So I'm going to define a specific size.
So now I've taken control of the size of my plotting area.
I can define an axis on that plotting area.
So an axis is just where are you-- so I could
have multiple subplots on a plot area.
In this case, I'm just going to have one.
So I'm just using the simple approach here.
I'd do my box plot like I did before.
But now you see on that axis, I can set a title.
So I give it some strings that are title.
I can set a y label.
So it says auto price.
And I can set a limit of 0 to 50,000.
Notice there's also a little problem here that you can't even really see
the end of the whisker there.
So let's try to run this and see what happens.

OK.
So I've got box plot of price.
So I know what I'm looking at.
And I know auto price is on the vertical.
You see, I've got a label.
And also, I've got 0 here.
So now I can actually see that part of it.
By using these various functions from matplotlib,
I've embellished that plot in useful ways,
that I know what it is, I can see the full range of the variables
because I've taken control of that.
And I've given it a title, et cetera.
OK?
But there's one more thing I need to do here.
Which goes to that question of why bother, why not just use a histogram?

So we're going to do another thing.
What if I wanted to compare the price by fuel type?
So remember, we have gas and diesel cars.
And I can use this by, which basically is shorthand for group by fuel type.
And notice I use ax equals ax.
So I'm actually doing something.
Not to confuse you but just to show you how this can work.
So I've subsetted my data frame to just those two columns, price and fuel type.
I'm now using the pandas plot method with by equals fuel type.
And I say that OK, I'm going to do it on that axis I've defined.
So I say my axis equals--
well, that axis ax.
OK?
And the rest of this ax.set title set y limb, that's all the same.
OK?
And so here we go.
And box plot of price.
And we've got auto price and we've got fuel type.
And you can see, well, interesting.
OK, so gas cars have a pretty wide range.
Their median price is quite a bit lower than diesel cars.
But it's not clear how much-- you can see these interquartile ranges overlap
so much.
It's not clear that that's statistically significant.
But it is clear that there is some difference,
there is some skew that's more pronounced for gas
cars than diesel cars.
And that most of our really expensive cars, presumably luxury cars, out
here are all gas cars.
So just by making this simple side by side comparison of gas and diesel cars,
we've learned quite a bit.
So I hope that gives you an idea of how you might use box plots.
And you can imagine using a box plot in a case
where your categorical variable had 20 categories or something like that.
Side by side by side, you would then see, you know,
a general relation between them very quickly once you
understand how to interpret a box plot.
