
Hi, and welcome.
In this part of the lesson, we're going to talk about combinatorics.
Combinatorics is the basis of a lot of discrete probability
theory, which is why we're going to spend a little bit of time on it.
It also, combinatorics happens to be the largest branch of mathematics.
If you looked at the number of papers published in math, especially
applied math, you'd find combinatorics was like a huge number,
more than any other branch of mathematics.
And we're going to treat combinatorics here
by two different-- there are two different kind of major ways
we can figure out the number of ways something can happen,
which is the core to understanding discrete probability.
So there's permutations, and there's combinations.

So let's start with just a simple example here of combinations.
We'll get to permutations in a little bit here.
So let's say we're going to make a sandwich.
And we have four types of bread.

We have five kinds of meat.

And we have four possible toppings.

So you know, like our bread could be white, wheat, multi-grain, rye.
Meat could be like turkey and ham and roast beef for whatever.
Toppings, mustard, mayo, ketchup, you know, whatever.
So let's say we can only take one from each of these.
So we're going to make a very simple sandwich here.
It's just going to have bread, meat, a topping, just one of each.
So we can use something called the multiplication principle
to find out how many combinations our simple sandwich,
so we just get one of each of these.
And so basically, we start out, and we can pick any one of four breads.
We can pick any one of five meats, and we can pick any one of four toppings.
And that gives us 80.
So there's essentially 80 unique sandwiches
we can build from this limited set of choices
by creating the combinations of each of these.
So the choices-- so the reason this is a multiplication, the reason it's
a combination is my choice of meat is independent of my choice of bread.
My choice of topping is independent of my choice of meat or bread.
So I simply can multiply those out using this multiplication principle,
and so that's a simple concept and just the multiplication principle
is a good way to compute combinations.
