
So having talked about conditional probabilities,
let's look at an example that has a surprising outcome.
Let's say that we have to evaluate the claims of a medical test company,
and they, for a rare disease, claim that their test is 99% accurate.
Now on the face of it, that sounds really great, you know, only 1% errors.
But it's a rare disease.
So we need to really dig into that and compute the conditional probabilities
to understand whether this test is actually useful for anything or not.
So on my screen here, I've created what's called a conditional probability
tree or graph model.
So we have our population of people that are going to get this test over here
on the left.
And then we have the probability that a person
has that disease and a probability that the person doesn't have the disease.
And then we're going to use this notation, P circle plus given S.
So this is the probability of a correct test that is--
we detect the disease, we have a positive result,
given that that particular subject has this disease.
There's also a chance that we missed some people, right?
Because we said the test is only 99% accurate.
So we can have this probability of missing
if we're misdetecting the disease given that the person really has the disease.
We can also have another type of error here, which is the probability that we
say that person has the disease, whereas in fact they're
from that population that does not have the disease.
And finally, at the bottom here, we have the probability
of saying that a person doesn't have that disease given that they in fact
don't have the disease.
So those are all the possible outcomes here for the conditional probabilities.
So let's go ahead and compute those.

And you can see the two error types that we're going to pay attention to
are this type two error, which is where we say someone--
where we're computing the probability that the test comes
up negative given that the person has the disease or a type one error
where we say the person has the disease, given that they actually
don't have the disease.
So here's some probabilities for that disease.
So the probability in this whole population
that somebody has this disease is roughly 3 out of 10,000.
OK, and so the probability that someone doesn't have this disease
is 1 minus this number.
Our probability that the test comes up correct is 0.99.
The probability that the test comes up in error is simply 1 minus that.
So it's going to be 0.01.
The probability, the conditional probability
that they have the correct--
that we're going to get this correct given disease,
is the probability of disease times the probability
of a correct diagnosis or a correct test.
The probability correct that they don't have the disease is also fairly simple.
It's just the probability that they don't
have the disease right times the probability of a correct test.
So let's run that, and we'll just print the results.
So this looks pretty good, right?

So pretty much the probability that someone with the disease, which is low,
gets detected is this.
The probability that we say someone doesn't have the disease, who
in fact doesn't is almost 0.99.
So far, this looks pretty promising.
But let's look at those errors.
So we've got the probability of error, given that they have the disease.
That's the probability that we misdiagnosed
someone who really has the disease, or in this case,
this is the probability of error given that they don't have the disease.
So this is a case where we say they have the disease.
But in fact, they don't.
So let's go ahead and compute those conditional probabilities
and print them out.

And now you start to see what the problem is here.
So very small chance in this population missing the disease, right?
Basically 3 out of a million.
But the chance of a missed diagnosis of someone who doesn't actually
have the disease is nearly 1%, right.
So say 1,000 people come through or 10,000 people,
we're going to say 100 of those 10,000 have the disease that
actually don't have the disease.
We will find most of the 3.125 people who
do have the disease out of that 10,000.
But we're going to have several orders of magnitude
more errors than true diagnosis.
So do you think this test is actually useful?
Let's go ahead and look at those outcomes here.
So this is back to our probability graph,
and you see the probability of someone having the disease and being--
or having a correct test, given that they have the disease is pretty good.
The probability of having an incorrect test, given that they have the disease
also looks pretty good.
See it's a couple orders of magnitude less.
The probability of being diagnosed as not
having the disease if you don't have the disease, again, looks reasonably good.
But here's the rub.
The probability of having a positive test for someone who
doesn't have the disease is nearly 1%.
And we only get that by working through these conditional probabilities.
So we're just going to do one last thing here.
We're just going to add up.
We're going to make sure we haven't made an error here.
So the probability of all these 4 outcomes has to add up to 1.
So let's just make sure that that really is true.
And it's pretty darn close.
It's point as many nines as our computer can display.
So I hope this has given you some interesting insight
into why we should pay attention to conditional probabilities
and how correctly understanding conditional probabilities
can totally change our perception of a claim
like our medical test is 99% accurate.
