
So now we're going to talk about conditional probabilities.
And so by conditional probability, I can write, for example, P of A given B.
So if you look at this diagram, you can kind of see what I'm talking about.
So A has these 6 events out of 10.
B has 4 events out of 10.
But the conditional probability of A given B,
we know that it has to be in B and A, is really just the intersection, right?

But it needs to be normalized, so we can't just
say it's the intersection like that.
So it's the probability of what?
Of the intersection of A and B normalized by the probability of B,
right?
Because it's not-- this would just give us 2/10, right.
This gives us 4/10.
So what we wind up with is 0.2 over 0.4.
So we have 2/10 over 4/10, so it just equals 0.5,
which has got to be correct, because we have 4 points here in B So that's--
so we want to know the probability of A given B. So 4 in B. 2
also happen to be in A, so it has to be 0.5.
Now let's look what happens if we have some independent events here.
Let's draw another--
I'm just going to add some points.
Another subset I'm going to call D here.
And just give it a few points.
So now we have 15 points.
So what is the probability of D given say, A?
Well, does this even matter?
No, it doesn't because it just has to be the probability of D,
because you see that there is no overlap there.
They're independent.
They're mutually independent.
But be careful, because there's a little trick here.
For example, probability of D given A does not
have to equal, in fact, in this case is not
equal to the probability of A given D.
So there is not like a commutative property for conditional probability.
So keep that in mind when you're working with them.
So just to recap, very simple concept, in a way,
conditional probability just means the probability of some event being
in one set, given that it's also in another, and if they're independent,
well it doesn't matter, like D and A, or B and D are independent.
But it's not commutative.
So that's just in a nutshell conditional probabilities.
