[MUSIC PLAYING]

We can decompose time series into components--
the seasonal, the, trend and the lag or the residual.
And there's methods in Python to do that.
So we can actually, have a look at what these estimates of these parts are.
So let's give that a try.
So my screen here, I've created a function
from the statsmodels.tsa.seasonal, which I'm calling STS.
And you can see, sts.seasonal_decompose of the time series.
And there's two model types--
as you now know-- a model of additive model and a multiplicative model.
And I've just made additive the default here, but it doesn't have to be.
And then, the rest of the work here, we're
going to make a plot so there's a plot method for a decomposed time series.
And we're going to create a data frame that we're
going to return of the residual, the trend, and the seasonal components.
So we're going to go ahead and run that.
We're going to print the first 12 rows.
And see that plot, as well.
So first thing we see is, where we're just looking at the print here.
So they come out in whatever order.
So this is the print.
And notice, that because we have a periodicity
here that's going to be six months--
which is how we generated this time series.
Remember, this was our white noise plus trend
plus seasonal time series that we're using here, which we called seasonal.
Residual and trend come up with NA values.
They just can't be fit at the end.
But if we look at more in the middle of the time series or--
I'm sorry-- if we look at the last 12 months also, we see, again,
the six values--
the last six months--
of seasonal and trend can't be fit here.
So that's printing that.
And then, let's look at this plot.
So the plot has four subplots.
The first one is our original seasonal time series,
which you can see the trend, the seasonality, and the jaggedyness
from the white noise.
And here's the trend.
Remember, the trend was perfectly linear, but in this case,
it's picking up some noise so it's a little bumpy
using the non-linear regression method they used to fit this.
Our seasonal method-- notice-- goes from 2 to minus 2
and it really looks like it captured it.
And what's left is the residual.
And it's mostly-- remember, this should be
pretty much white noise at this point and it kind of looks that way.
So it's a good way to have a quick look and understand
what the decomposition of the time series
looks like so you know what you're up against.
Is there a strong trend?
Yes, in this case, there definitely is.
Is there a strong seasonal component?
Yes, in this case, there definitely is.
And what you have left is a residual, which ideally, you need
to reduce to a white noise component.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
