[INTRO MUSIC PLAYING]

So there's a lot of simple examples we can
draw on probability from various games.
For example, dice is a very simple game in the sense
that you can compute the probabilities of any possible numbers
that the two dice can roll.
So let's have a look at how we can do that,
and do a little analysis on what those probabilities are.
So first, on my screen here, I'm going to load some packages.
I'm also going to set a few styles here for our plots, just so they look nice.
And I'm going to load a few more packages.
And the first thing I'm going to do, I'm going to use itertools.product,
and range 1 to 7.
So basically a dice, you can roll anywhere from one to six, of course,
so range 1 to 7 gives me 1 to 6, and the product method gives me
the complete Cartesian product of all possible dice rolls.
So let me run that, and you see what I mean.
You can get 1, 1; 1, 2; 1, 3; and then 2, 1; 2, 2; et cetera for all our dice,
down to 6, 6.
So those are 36 possible outcomes of rolling two dice.
And you can see what the frequencies of those are--
I've summarized here.

So for example, for a 7, there's six ways
you can roll a 7, but only one way you can roll a 2,
and only one way you can roll a 12, and three
ways you can roll a 10, et cetera.

So let's go ahead and do that in code.
So we've got two dice.
We're going to give them some column names, and we're going to add the sum,
and we're going to add another column which
is-- so the sum is the total score, and we're
going to add another column which says whether it's
a double, that is if both dice have the same number come up.
So you can see the first one is dice1.
Dice2 is one.
The sum is 2, and it is a double, because 1 and 1, right?
So our next double would be 2 and 2.
The sum is 4, and that's a double.
So you see, there aren't that many doubles,
but there are 36 possible rolls here.
So let's get a count, how many different ways--
and I showed you that in that table, but how many ways can I
roll different numbers of dice?
So you can see I can roll a 7 six ways, and 8 five ways.
The most frequent is 7--
six ways.
And then 12's and 2, you can only roll one way.
So this gives you some idea of the expected frequency of these dice rolls.
You expect 7 to be the most frequent, and 2 and 12 to be the least frequent.
So that's starting to tell us something about probability.
And so we can normalize these counts--
so this is count.
So it's not really in terms of probabilities.
It's just in terms of frequencies.
But to make it a probability, we just have
to normalize by the sum of all the possible counts.
And we get a similar table.
And you can see there's a 16.7% chance of rolling a 7, but only a 2.8% chance
of rolling a 2, for example--
or a 12.
So those are the actual probabilities, and they should add up to 1.
And just to make that a little clearer, let's
go ahead and plot those probabilities as a bar plot.
And here's our bar plot.
And as I said, 7 is the most frequent--
a little over 16%.
2 and 12 are the least frequent, with almost 3% chance.
And you can see all the other numbers are in between.
So it makes a nice ordered set here, by frequency or probability.
So that's just some simple essentially combinatorics
that we then, by normalization, turn into probabilities for rolling dice.
[OUTRO MUSIC PLAYING]
