
Hi, and welcome.
So this lesson, we're going to talk about sampling.
And sampling is very important in data science,
because in general, we don't deal with entire populations of data.
We deal with samples from a sub-population or a selected
population.
We'll talk about what that means as we go through these lessons.
So this is a very important topic and it's not real complicated,
but it's important to think about.
So there's three main goals we have in this lesson.
I want you to develop an understanding of why sampling is so important,
why we're always dealing with samples.

And in terms of properties of the samples,
you need to recognize that we're always making
any kind of statistical inference, model construction,
or whatever it is on a sample of the population,
not generally on the whole population.
And we can do things like estimate sample variance, which
may be like a point estimate that tells us
something about the variability within a population.
But we're not actually computing the variance of the entire population.
So it may seem a little abstract, but I think
you'll get the idea as we go through the lesson.
But just try to keep those three points in mind.
And what are some use cases?
Well, say, A/B testing on a website.
We have users and we show them two different versions of our web site.
We randomly sample and some users get site A, some users get sample B,
and we try to determine whether website A
or B is more effective for our purpose.
But when you think about what's the total population,
it's all possible users past, present and future.
Well, we may have records on all the past users.
We don't necessarily know about the present users.
And we surely are only making inferences about the future users,
assuming they're somewhat like the past users that we have data from.
So right there we're forced to deal with a sample of the entire population,
which is all possible users, because all possible users have never come
to our website and they never will.
Another example might be if we're interested in sports statistics,
we look at World Cup soccer statistics maybe
for the 32 teams that qualify in one season.
That's a sample.
But a complete population would be all the national teams
of the past, the present, and the future that might compete in World Cup soccer.
So again, we may have records on all the past World Cup soccer eliminations.
We certainly don't know about the present ones until the games are done.
And we're never going to know the future until the future occurs.
So again, we're forced to talk about a sample.
And a third example, let's say we want to know the average height of data
science students.
So we could actually, conceivably, have everybody in this program
measure their own height somehow and report it.
And we'd have a sample of data science students in the UW program.
But if our goal really was all data science
students who were taking classes worldwide, it's extremely hard to do.
It's too big.
Even if we think we've found every one, we may not.
You know, there are many programs and it might be really hard.
BUT we could make some inference about data science students
just by measuring the ones we have available, which is in the UW program.

So the key takeaways from this intro are we're always dealing with samples, not
the whole population.
And any inferences we make about the population
are done from samples, which includes same machine learning
model construction.
