
Hi and welcome.
This is our lesson on exploratory data analysis.
And what do we mean by that?
So exploratory data analysis is a process
we go through as data scientists when we're faced with a new data set,
and we're trying to learn about what that data might tell us
or how we can solve a certain problem with that data.
Or maybe we're going back to old data, but we
have a new question we want to answer, a new problem we're working on.
But regardless of the circumstance, what we need to do
is understand what's in that data, how it relates
to the problem we're trying to solve.
And so we need to understand the characteristics of that data.
And that's not as easy as it sounds, because imagine
a data set with many attributes, you know, maybe many columns.
And maybe you've joined tables from many sources.
And what does it all mean?
How does it fit together?
How does that help us predict?
Maybe we're trying to predict the price of something
like cars based on their characteristics or housing
based on its characteristics.
Or maybe we're trying to classify our customers
into different categories of interests and what products they
might be interested in.
Regardless of what the problem is we're trying to do,
we need to understand that data.
And there's a couple methods we use in this so-called exploratory data
analysis.
One is summary statistics.
So summary statistics, we look at things like simple computed quantities
like the mean.
Or we might look at counts, counts of categories,
you know, how many are red versus how many are green kind of thing.
So those are summary statistics.
And we'll look at how we compute some of those in Python
and how we interpret them as we go.
Also, the other method we use in exploratory data analysis as data
scientists is visualization.
And visualization is absolutely essential.
If we can't visualize data very well, we're working fairly blind.
You know, we need to see what's there.
Even if we're just cleaning up the data, getting it ready for some analysis,
using visualization is a very powerful way
to see if we're even making progress or what the problems might be
or what to do next.
But also visualization helps us understand, you know,
what relates to what in the data set.
Maybe a couple of variables are just covariate.
Maybe we didn't realize--
I mean, this is a silly example, because you would figure this out.
But temperature in centigrade and temperature in Fahrenheit,
they really aren't telling you anything different.
And you would find that out immediately with a visualization
if you didn't already know that, which in this case you probably do.
And then the other part of visualization is,
what if you need to communicate what you're
doing to your colleagues and your bosses and your clients or whatever?
A visualization, a good set of graphics that
really show the story of what you're doing
and why is going to be your best tool.
A lot of words, a lot of, you know, formulas-- forget it.
Nobody but you is going to understand that.
But visualizations-- everybody likes a good picture.
And so to that end, we're going to look at a lot of different visualizations.
And we're going to do it using Python methods.
And within Python, there's Matplotlib, Pandas plotting,
and something called Seaborn.
So we're going to use three different packages that all relate.
And we'll talk about, in the lesson, how they relate.
But we're going to use three different packages
to produce different kinds of plots, so you get a feel for how plots work.
In this particular lesson, we're going to stick
to primarily univariate plot types.
And so we'll get to other types later in the class.
But right now, we're just going to stick to univariate plot types.
And the other thing we're going to get into
is how do you add attributes to a plot.
So you have a plot.
You have an x-axis, a y-axis.
Well, you need to label those axes.
Never show people an unlabeled plot.
No one knows what you're talking about.
Nobody understands what those numbers mean.
Maybe you do.
Maybe you don't even remember.
You know, you come back to your plot a year later.
Do you remember?
You need a title.
And there's other attributes.
You might want to control how big the plot is
or what the aspect ratio is or something like that.
So we'll get to all that in this particular lesson.
And I hope you enjoy this.
Because to me, visualization is really one
of the most engaging and exciting and interesting tasks
we do data scientists.
