
So there's one more way we can project multiple axes
into an array that's very powerful.
It's been invented by a number of people, William Cleveland, Edward Tufte
among them.
I think they did it more or less at the same time
without knowing each other were doing it.
Tufte called it method of small multiples.

It's also been called facet plotting or pairwise plotting.
It's got a number of names, but we'll call it facet plotting in this lesson.
And so the general idea is you do a group-by operation.
So you subset by some typically categorical variable, your data.
And then you look at subplots on some array.
And I'll show you some examples of that.
And you do it side by side by side.
And generally you make sure the axes are exactly
the same length so you can make exact comparisons.
So let's look at some examples of how that might work
and why it's a very powerful method.
It takes some work.
You're going to have to kind of think about this
to wrap your head around how to best use it.
But it's really cool and important method.
So within Seaborn there's the Facet Grid method.
And what we do is we build a grid, or a facet grid.
And so in this case, we're going to build a grid
with just the columns divided by--
so the group-by variable for the columns of our plot array
is going to be drive wheels.
And then we map a histogram, see plot.hist, of price onto that grid.
So you'll see what happens here when we run the magic.
So you can see, so we have drive wheels.
So there's three categories of drive wheels.
So you can see we have three histograms.
The vertical axes of count is exactly the same.
It's a little hard to see this, but the horizontal axis of price
is exactly the same.
And then we have the categories of drive wheels-- rear-wheel drive,
front-wheel drive, four-wheel drive.
And the main thing that sticks out here is that rear-wheel drive cars
have the biggest range of price.
So it looks like compared to four-wheel drive and front-wheel drive cars, all
the most expensive cars are real-wheel drive cars.
It also looks like the front-wheel drive cars are heavily
skewed toward low-price cars.
So we've learned something interesting about our data set
by using this facet grid method, where we grouped on just one
variable, in this case, drive wheel.
So we actually have three dimensions on this plot, which is price,
number for the histogram, and then type of drive wheels.
But let's go a little further.
We can make histograms by, let's do, columns of aspiration and row
by fuel type.
And we're going to, again, just do histogram.
So we make our grid with columns as aspiration, rows as fuel type.
And when we map that, we're going to map it again to plot hist.
Or we're going to map plot.hist onto that grid,
is how I should say that, of price.
So here we go.

And so you see how they print this.
It's fuel type equals gas.
Aspiration equal standard.
Fuel type equals gas.
Aspiration equals turbo.
And then we've got our two diesels categories down here.
And what's interesting is for gas standard cars, there's a lot of skew
toward cheap cars, right, because, remember, this is price.

And then there's this clump of more expensive cars, which you don't see
for turbo gas cars, turbo diesel cars.
Or they're not very many.
You can see there's just a few standard diesel cars.
But you can see like the turbo diesel cars
tend to be more expensive than the standard diesel cars, et cetera.
So again, we've learned some interesting things
and we've projected another dimension by having now a two-by-two grid
of this categorical variable.
So let's try one more example here.
And this is going to be a scatterplot.
So this time we're going to map a scatterplot onto the grid.
And I'm going to set the columns as drive wheels, the rows as body style.
And we're going to use the hew equals fuel type with something called the set
one pallet.
It's another pallet.
And let's see what happens.

So it gets a little messy.
When you do this, don't go overboard.
Don't have too many variables.
But body style equals convertible.
It's a little hard to read.
But I think it's drive wheels equals rear, front, four-wheel drive.
And you can see, some of these, like, there are no convertibles that
are four-wheel drive.
There's only one rear-wheel drive convertible apparently.

I'm sorry.
These are rear-wheel drives.
There's only one front-wheel drive convertible.
And you can see there's a fair number of--

say, hatchbacks are pretty numerous.
So we got hatchbacks on this row.
And we've got most hatchbacks being front-wheel drive, and especially
the cheaper ones.
See, only the most expensive hatchbacks are rear-wheel drive.
And we've got only one four-wheel drive hatchback.
So you can wind up with--
if you don't have enough data points, you
can wind up with a lot of blank squares here, et cetera.
And you can see the difference between--
in this case, we've switched the colors.
So blue is now diesel.
Red is now gas, et cetera.
And so you could see we could quickly see a lot of important detail
by doing this group-by operation, which you can do, generally,
on at least two variables.
Sometimes you can do three.
It can get kind of messy.
You can add other aesthetics, like, in this case, we used hew on fuel type
to separate those.
But you could do other things as well.
And you can project quite a few more dimensions
onto your page using a facet grid.
But it takes some thinking.
And you can also wind up with just a mess, where
the plots are too small, nobody can see them,
or too many plots with not enough data points in them, or something like that.
So use some care.
Use some effort.
But it's a really powerful method to show some relationships that there
really is no better way to do it.
