q[MUSIC PLAYING]

So in the last demo, we looked at summary statistics for numeric values.
We looked at things like the mean, and the standard deviation, and the median,
and the quartiles.
But what do you do with categorical data?
Basically, with categorical data, as we said, you have to deal with counts.
And so how do we summarize, by counts, categorical data?
And so, in this demonstration, we're going
to build what's called frequency tables.
And frequency tables give us a way to summarize categorical data.
So we're starting from the same data frame we
used before, this auto price data set.
But we're going to add a new column, called counts.
You don't, strictly, have to do that, but it makes the output look better.

And it's all just going to be ones.
It just gives us something to count, OK, or something to display,
and you'll see why that works.
And so the next thing we have to do is we chain some methods, some operators,
on our data frame.
And let me just go through this chain.
I'm going to start at the left, and I'm going to work to the right.
So under bar price, is the name of the data frame.
Then, I only need--
I'm going to-- what I'm trying to do here is find out
how many cars each of the manufacturers represented in this dataset makes.
So we can see some manufacturers may have a lot of cars represented here,
some may have maybe only one.
Well, we'll have to find out.
And so we're going to go by-- what we really want is a count by make.
So we're going to have that counts column, and just the make column.
We're going to perform a group by make, so now we
have the data frame grouped by the manufacturer.
And then we're going to run an aggregation this agg, a-g-g, method.
And in the method we're using is called count.
If you look at the documentation for agg,
you'll see there's various aggregations you can do of data frames.
And so it's going to do it by the groups.
So let me run that, and you'll see what happens.
And so you see, we've got-- and this is why
I made that column called counts, because now we have a nice column
called counts, that is the counts.
We have another column called make.
And we see there's three Alfa Romeo, six Audi's, et cetera.
And we can scroll up and down on this and see, for example,
there's only one Mercury.

But there's a lot of Toyotas, 32 Toyotas.
So when we do further analysis of this dataset, we should keep that in mind,
that the number of cars represented for these different manufacturers
is quite unbalanced.
Toyota has 32, Mercury only has one.
Alfa Romeo only had three.
Isuzu only has two.
Other are kind of in the middle, like Honda and Mazda, have 13.
So we have uneven numbers, here.
So in any further analysis and visualization of the data,
we should look at that.
But we want to learn a little more, here.
Remember, there were different kinds of fuel that the engines of these cars
could use.
So we have fuel type, and make, and again, counts.
So we're going to just look at those three columns, and notice that-- oh,
by the way, look at this notation.
See it's a square bracket notation to subset a data frame,
and then another square bracket, which is my list of column names.
So don't be confused by that.
And then I group by--
now, I have to give it a list of make and fuel type.
And again, I'm going to aggregate by count.
So we get a nifty little table, here.
And you can see my list of cars.
So you can see, for example, Mazda has two diesel cars, and 11 gas cars.
All of these manufacturers only have gas cars.
Mercedes is four and four, diesel and gas.
Nissan only has one diesel, Peugeot only has one diesel.
Toyota has, out of all those cars, only three diesels, but 29 gas cars,
so that's an important thing to keep in mind, et cetera.
So we can see right away that, not only do them
different manufacturers have different numbers of cars represented
in this data set, but also there are a minority of diesel cars,
I don't think there's any manufacturer that
has as many diesel cars as gas cars.
And most of these cars, in fact, are gas cars.
And we can go even further.
So we had-- we're going to look at counts again.
By fuel type, this time aspiration, so that's
as the engine, a standard or a turbo engine, and the manufacturer.
And then we're going to group by, again, make, fuel type,
as we did before, but also aspiration.
So you can see, you can keep building more and more complex tables.
And now we can see Alpha Romeo, all three cars are just gas and standard.
Audi has only one turbo car represented, for example.
And we can go down to Nissan, has a standard diesel, a turbo gas,
and the rest are standard, et cetera.
So Peugeot, all Peugeot diesels are turbo, et cetera, et cetera.
So you can learn about how the different car manufacturers,
whether they have standard or turbo, gasoline or diesel,
looking at a frequency table like this.
And that's why we call it a frequency table,
because these counts are the frequency within the dataset
that that type of car occurs.
So now we've looked at an easy way to understand categorical data, which
is using frequency tables.
And we've looked at doing frequency tables, just based
on one grouping of the data, using two and even three.
And you can go further, although interpretation gets harder and harder,
and maybe how you'd present that, as a useful result, to end users also
becomes harder and harder.
So use some caution, don't go overboard on this stuff.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
