[MUSIC PLAYING]

So we've looked at one multi-variate plot.
The scatterplot.
And we looked at some ways to deal with over plotting of the scatterplot.
But let's look at another two bi-varient plot that's used a lot is the heat map.
And the idea of the heat map is you have a vertical axis and a horizontal axis.
And they can be categorical variables or bend values of a numeric variable.
And then you see the density, like how--
basically that counts show the density of how many cases are in each of those.
Many 2D bins.
It's kind of like the hex bins plot in a way.
But it's using square--
squares and color density rather than hex bins and density.
So, to do this, we're going to look at an interesting relationship
here that we might want to know.
Which is price range and manufacturer.
So what we're looking for here is, are some manufacturers
really focused on certain price ranges?
seems reasonable.
But we have to do something to transform.
We need to create a new variable here because we--
price is a numeric variable right now.
And we need it to be something that looks more like a categorical variable.
So, we're going to create a new column called "price under bar bin."
And we're going to use the pandas cut method on our price column.
So we got auto under bar price dot lock.
And then we want all rows.
And we want just the price column.
We're going to do that into 20 bins.
And we're going to have the labels just as the range.
So they're going to go zero to 19.
We could also give them some character variables.
And we'll just look at the head of that date of the new values we get.
Just the first 10.
And so you can see cases--
so this is just case number, one, two, three, four.
And you can see that one is in price bin 5, 5, 4, 6, 5, 6, 6, etc.
So it's just a bin.
Number OK?
So that's all we've done.
And we can kind of-- we can look at that using cross tabulation.
Which is kind of like a way to make--
another way to make a frequency table.
So we can do--
we're going to create a new data frame called "make under bar price."
And we're going to use this cross-tab method on the price bin
and on the make, OK?
So the cross tabulation-- you have to have two variables.
So, we're going to use price bin and make.
And cross tabs requires also that they be categorical.
So we have a categorical-- you know, basically a price bin number
and a make, which is a manufacturer.
And then we're-- we've given them each a one.
So, to get the number of cars in each bin, we just apply the sum on the rows.
So the rows are--
or I'm sorry, on the columns.
So axis equals zero.
So the columns are the make.
And then we're going to normalize the number of cars.
So we want to know--
so the reason we're doing this, why we're creating this sum.
And dividing the price by the number of cars
is we want to have this as a frequency, or as a proportion.
A zero-- not just the count, but on a zero to one range.
OK?
Hopefully that's not too confusing.
So we've created a cross tab, which is just counts.
We've summed those counts.
And then we're dividing through by those counts
so that we get a normalized variable.
And we'll just look at the results of that.
And you can see, like Alfa Romeo has 33%, you know, cars in price bin four.
And Audi, et cetera.
And Jaguar doesn't have any in those first four price bins.
Remember, there's nine price bins.
We're not seeing them all.
Peugeot has 18% in price been three.
18% in price bin four.
So, it's just looking at the head of that data frame.
So, we're only looking at the first five rows.
Now, having done all that, we're ready to actually make a heat map.
So, again, we'll set up an axis.
We're going to create a P-color--
there's several methods we could use to make our heat map.
But we'll just-- we're using the P-color method on that make price table.
The one we just--
it's our-- it's basically our cross tabulated frequency table
that we've normalized.
And we're going to use blue, shades of blue.
And we'll set up the ticks.
So we've got make, price, and make, price columns.
So the column names are the manu--
are going to be the manufacturers.
We're going to rotate those ticks by 90 degrees.
And the reason-- notice we're doing this with Mad Plot Live.
So the reason we're doing that is, there's so many
makes that we don't want them to lie where the text lies,
one on top of each other.
And then we just give them the labels and the titles.
So, long winded explanation, but let's look at what happens in the end.
So, we've got price ranges of autos by make.
And so the darker the blue, the more cars there are.
So we've got price bin, and we can see Mercury--
well, Mercury, remember, only had one car.
And it's in this--
sort of, price bin six.
And you can see some car manufacturers tend to have pretty expensive cars.
Like, let's see, so--
so you see there's bins in the heat map like that.
From bin 10 to bin 19.
And that's Mercedes-Benz.
OK, so we kind of gather Mercedes-Benz are expensive cars.
Alfa Romeo has a more clustered--
Chevrolet, I think there was only one Chevrolet, again.
So that's tightly clustered.
And et cetera.
And you can imagine, you can build a heat map
with many, many categorical variables.
Basically hundreds on the axis.
You can create heat maps with many, many categories for the two variables
that you're creating the map for.
Genetic-- people doing genetic mapping use heat maps because they might have
tens of--
10,000, or a couple of thousand variables that they
want to see the relationship to.
And they'll sometimes sort out those variables in ways
to highlight patterns.
And you can see, it's a little tedious in Python to make good heat maps,
and normalize them, and all that.
But if you have a lot of categories and you
want to somehow display a relationship between them,
it's a really powerful tool if you're willing to put a little work into it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[TYPING]
