[MUSIC PLAYING]

So time series data are really important in data science,
and they have a long history, time series analysis.
And in the 1920s, there was a man named Walke and another one, Yule.
Here's a picture of George Yule.
And he published, in 1927, a really fundamental time series model
called "The Autoregressive Model".
It's one of the models we're going to look at in this lesson.
And that was probably the start of modern time series analysis.
It's a regression model.
We'll talk about that more.
Spool forward like another 20 years to the late 1940s, and this man--
Norbert Wiener-- published models on stochastic time series.
And it really gives us a basis to understand the properties of time
series and their information content.
If you have used streaming video today, or the fact
that you're watching this video now, you owe a debt to Wiener
because his theories are fundamental to the coding we
use today for like streaming audio and streaming video and cell phone
conversations and satellite communications-- all sorts of things
that we can attribute to this pioneering work by Norbert Wiener.
The specific models we're going to talk about today are--
and I'll explain what all these terms mean as we go--
Autoregressive, Integrative, Moving Average Model,
so there's three components to that.
But it was this man, George Box, who worked on this in the 1950s and 60s,
and finally published this very influential book in 1970.
It's now in like it's fourth edition.
The original authors have passed, but there's a new author who's picked it up
and continues to refresh it.
You know, I don't know that I necessarily recommend it,
but it is a pretty comprehensive book on this basic integrate-- you know,
what we call ARIMA modeling of time series and many more topics.
There's now lots and lots of books on time series.
It's been an explosion since this 1970 book.
But-- so you can gather that over a long time a lot of really smart people
have worked on time series analysis.
And we're just going to look at this one particular model, the ARIMA
model, which gets us quite a long ways into understanding
the properties of time series.
