
So we looked at bar charts, our bar plots,
which are a way to show counts for categorical data.
But for numeric values, what we want to look at is the frequency distribution.
We want to understand, you know, which range of values are more frequent.
And to do that we use commonly what's called a histogram.
So a histogram is like a bar chart, but the difference
is we've started with numeric values.
We've binned them into some number of ranges
and then displayed the counts of how many values
fall within however many ranges we've specified.
So let's look at an example here.
So in this case, we're interested in the price of automobiles.
And again, I'm just using this lock method.
And I want all the rows.
So I've got that colon comma, and then price.
So I've just selected one column, basically, out of my data frame here,
my _price data frame.
And then I .plot .hist.
So that's the panda's plotting method for a histogram.
And I'm giving it just one optional argument here, bins = 30.
The default is, I think, bins = 10, which gives a pretty coarse histogram.
So let's do this with bins = 30.
And we'll go ahead and plot.
And you can see the result.
So we already knew from our exploratory analysis using summary statistics
that our cheapest car was just over 5,000.
Our most expensive car was over 45,000.
We also knew that the mean price is somewhere around here, 13,000.
But the median is about 10,000.
And so from that we inferred that this must be a very skewed histogram.
And in the quartiles, I think the 25% point was at about 6,300 or something
if I'm recalling correctly.
So you can see that, indeed, we do have a very skewed distribution here.
Many cars are inexpensive.
And the more expensive they are, the less frequent
they are until we get to this one very expensive car out here-- well,
very expensive by 1985 standards.
And so with this simple histogram just looking at 30 bins of the value--
so the count, say, in this first bar is just from 5,000 to--
I think it's probably about--
5,000 to 6,000 almost.
And so however many cars-- so it looks like there's 16 or 17 cars in that bin.
So that's all there is to it.
A histogram is a very simple kind of display, but you learn a lot from it.
We just learned a lot about the frequency distribution
of the price of these automobiles.
And it's a good idea for all your numeric variables, whenever
you're starting work on a data set, to look at the histograms,
to actually know what is in there.
And there outliers?
Is it highly skewed, like our price of cars?
Does it have some other funny property?
Is it multimodal?
And you'll find that right away by using a histogram.
