
So we've looked at summary statistics a bit.
And now we're going to move on to one of my favorite topics
in data science, visualization of data.
And there's a number of reasons we, as data scientists, spend a lot of time
not only munching our data but visualizing our data.
Visualization gives us a way to actually understand and look
at the relationships in our data.
Without good visualization we're essentially blind.
We're just guessing that oh, maybe that variable somehow
relates to this other label we're trying to predict or something like that.
So we really don't know what's going on.
In fact, even when cleaning data and preparing data,
visualization is important.
How do you know there are outliers or strange properties
of a certain variable or several variables
together, unless you can actually see what's going on.
So visualization works there.
And then finally, another reason to do visualization is presentation.
As data scientists, our value only is achieved
if our colleagues understand what we're talking about can do something,
if we present actionable results.
And it's hard to explain to people abstract concepts,
but everybody likes a good picture.
And if you can create good pictures that show
the concepts you're trying to communicate,
you're going to be way ahead in terms of how much value you
can deliver to whatever organization you're working for or serving.
So visualization has a long history in statistics and data science
going way back.

And I was fortunate to be involved in some early areas of that going back
into the 80s.
But there was a lot of work before that.
So a landmark book in the history of visualization
was this 1977 book by John W. Tukey called Exploratory Data Analysis.
So before, say, the 1960s, statisticians tended
to view their subject as a mathematical subject.
The idea of making interesting pictures or looking at data
was sort of considered secondary.
It wasn't something you properly should spend a lot of time on.
And Tukey took a very different view, starting even in the late 50s
into the 60s.
And especially with the rise of computers
capable of displaying graphics, he said wait, we should be looking at data.
We should be understanding the relationships in as many views
as we possibly can.
And in 1977 he published this really seminal book that changed the way a lot
of statisticians, data analysts-- what nowadays we would call data scientists,
but that term didn't exist in those days-- thought about data.
And it was quite a revolution, say when I was in graduate school,
to have a copy of that book and understand
the power of just looking at data, of understanding those relationships.
Spool forward to the early 1990s--
William Cleveland, Bill Cleveland at Bell Labs, came out with this book
where he had done--
he had developed some new visualization methods,
but also he had done something else that's very important.
He had actually looked at, done experiments
on how people perceive the data they see in their plots.
So he-- and he didn't just use a random sample of people.
He tested this on colleagues at Bell Labs,
so presumably other scientists, mathematicians, engineers.
So these weren't people who were just randomly chosen
who knew nothing about data.
They were educated and they understood data.
But yet he noticed that certain charts and plots, for example pie plots,
consistently were misinterpreted even by experts.
And so he came up with this book, 1992, and there's
a companion volume that came out the next year that kind of expands
on some of these concepts.
And so we, with these books and the thought process, we--
data science and statistics acquired this idea
of exploratory data analysis, which is that a good way
to get started on a new dataset is to just explore it,
to use summary statistics that we already talked
about, but also a variety of graphs.
And one of the points here is you need a variety of graphs.
You can't just make one histogram and say, oh, I know what's going on here.
You need to do various views, multiple views.
If your data relationships are complex, and in real world problems
they virtually always are, you need to create multiple views.
And so in the rest of this lesson, we're going
to look at ways to mostly view single numeric variables or count data
and a little bit of categorical data.
But you'll see that we develop a better and better understanding of the data.
Basically we're going to focus on the price of those automobiles as we go.
So I hope you enjoy doing visualization as much as I do.
And I hope you engage with it so that you really
understand relationships in any particular data
set you're trying to work on.
