
So we've looked at two different ways to look
at distribution properties of numeric variables--
a histogram and then the box plot.
The advantage of the box plot being we can subset or group the variable
by some categorical variable.
But let's look at a different way to display this which
is the kernel density estimation plot.
So imagine like a Gaussian kernel that looks like a bell shaped curve.
And if we slide that along our distribution,
we're creating a smooth estimate of the density, the probability
density of that distribution.
And we can use, you know, a shorter or longer kernel,
what's called kernel span or operator span,
to get a bumpier or smoother kernel density estimate.
So let's look at an actual example of this
to give you a feel for how it works.
I'm going to use yet another package here called Seaborn.
And I'm using Seaborn, because it makes really nice-looking kernel density
estimation plots.
So hopefully, some of this is becoming familiar.
We're going to set the plot area here.
I'm going to define my axis.
And then because I'm using Seaborn, I have
to set a style for what kind of a grid do I want to be plotting on.
And I'm just going to use the most basic called a white grid, which
is just a simple white background.
And then from Seaborn, I can use a kernel density plot
of auto price, same [INAUDIBLE] subset.
And I need to say that I'm using that axis.
And then I can put my labels.
I can do a title, an x label, and a y label.
OK?
And let me run this for you.

And here's the density plot.
And you see my title.
And notice it's now in units of density.
So if you integrated that entire curve, it would add up to one, OK?
And there's a couple funny things.
Because we're smoothing it, you can see it says
there's some density less than zero.
Well, that can't be true.
Cars aren't worth less than zero generally.
But you do see some characteristics.
For example, you see this big hump that we saw in the histogram.
And then you see that it's more or less at about $8,000 maybe.
You see a second hump out here in the mid 30,000s.
And you see this long tail going out.
And we know that the most expensive car is here.
But also, by changing this operator span, you could make this bumpier.
But, generally, use a kernel density plot,
the idea is to get a smooth representation
like this of the density as an alternative to a histogram.
You can also plot a histogram and a density plot one over each other
with Matplotlib or with Seaborn.
And that's a nice thing to do as well.
So the kernel density plot gives you a way to provide a smooth representation
as an alternative to a histogram-- which you remember is chunky, it's binned--
of the density of your probability distribution.
And they both show you slightly different things.
And like I said, sometimes you plot them one over the other
and see them both together.
So you can do that or one or the other.
