[MUSIC PLAYING]

Hi, we have just one more 2D plot we're going to explore here
and that is the line chart.
And a line chart is similar to scatterplot
that we've been working with, but it has one important difference--
the dots are connected by lines, the actual data points are dots.
And so we use a line chart when we have data that has some order.
For example, time series has an order.
You have samples in time so you can plot them as a line chart,
from the earliest samples on the left to the last samples on the right.
And there are other status types like that, that have an order.
If there's no order, then definitely use a scatterplot
because you'll just get a scrambled bunch of lines going randomly
everywhere.
So let's have a look at how we actually do this.
We're going to look at a famous example in science, which is the sunspot data.
It's actually one of the longest time series--
longest in terms of the time period it covers, and astronomers
have been making monthly counts of the sunspot cycle for about two centuries
now.
So let's have a look at the plot of that.
So on my screen here, I have some code.
And the first thing we have to do is we have a little CSV file,
we're just going to load that sunspots data.
And once we have it loaded, then we need to create a time series index.
We'll talk about this more later, but for now,
we're just going to change the pandas DataFrame
index from just being numbers--
zero, one two, three, four--
to an actual date time type.
So that'll give us a nice plot with dates on the x-axis.
And then, we're just going to look at the head and tail of it,
just to see what we've done.
So what you see is our first date--
I told you, this is a long time series--
1749 so January of 1749, there were 58 sunspots noticed.
And up to the last one, in this particular file, happens to be in 2013,
there were 37 sunspots noticed.
So you can see, it spans about over 250 years so more than two centuries,
like I said.
So let's talk about how we plot this.
So you shouldn't be too surprised, we're going
to create a figure with a certain plot size.
And create an axis around that.
And we'll just use the pandas plot method here
and we just want it on spots.
Spots are the number of sunspots in that month.
And we just use the plot method with no other arguments.
It's not scatter.
It's that kind equals scatter or anything like that.
It's just plot that.
So the default actually in pandas, is a line block that we're talking about.
And then, we'll give it some proper titles.
So let me make that plot, and you'll see the results.

And here you have it.
Let me scroll down so you guys can see that.
So you see, my title at the top--
time series of sunspots.
And we got the number of sunspots.
And you see the dates.

The dates are there across the bottom, starting in the 18th century
going into the 21st century.
And you see, there's this nice periodic behavior.
This is a well-known phenomenon in science,
that sunspots have approximately, an 11-year cycle.
So that's how we can make a really beautiful line plot.
And notice, that we used very little code up here, to actually do that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
