
So now that we've got four dimensions on our plot surface, let's
go for a fifth dimension.
And we're going to use marker shape to do that.
There's quite a bit of new code here, so let me walk you through that.
I have to do this in a somewhat different way.
Marker shape is a little hard to do in any of the Python plotting packages,
but it's not too bad.
So the first thing I need to do is create two dictionaries.
One is the markers that I want to use.

So for standard-- we're going to do aspiration.
So standard aspiration, I'm going to use this marker, the little arrow pointing
right.
For turbo cars, I'm going to use the little marker pointing left.
So they've got two different distinct marker shapes, and that's important.
When you pick your marker shapes, make sure you pick ones
that really look different to the eye.
Don't use a big, you know, 0 and a small o.
Or another notorious one is a and b.
The characters and b look pretty similar when
you get lots of them lying on a page.
And for fuels-- again, I'm going to create a similar--
for diesel, red; gas, blue.
OK.
So I've got these additional attributes or additional aesthetics now defined
in these dictionaries.
And I've created this function here.
So we're going to use Seaborn.
So, as always, we define our axis.
We have two loops here, so we're going to get val1 in markers and val2
in colors.
So we iterate over these dictionary keys, and we--
basically, we want to make a temporary data
frame for where we have val1, which is whatever the value of the--
so that will be markers, be standard or turbo.
And then "and," whichever for the color parameter, which will be diesel or gas.
And then we can just keep putting what's called a reg plot, which
is another kind of Seaborn scatterplot.
We're just going to lay one over the other,
but it will all look integrated when we're done.
They're all on the same axis, you see.
So, again, the first part's obvious here, the x and the y in the data frame
we're using.
We're not going to show the model fit.
You could try it with the model fit, but you're going to get something funny,
because there's four different ones here.
Then again, we go scatter KWS.
So this case, we're going to do "color" is
our color choice from that dictionary, and our alpha and our engine size.
OK?
And then we get the marker equals--
and that's why I used reg plot, because it has a marker value.

And then the rest is title and all the usual stuff.
So let's go ahead and run that.

And so we have a very long title for our plot,
but that's very important, because you've
got to know what you're plotting.
And you'll see, as usual, we've got city MPG auto price,
and then we've got red and blue, red for diesel, blue for gas.
The size of the marker-- you can see kind of these cheap cars
with high fuel efficiency have pretty small engines.
Our big, expensive gas guzzlers have big marker size.
These guys in the middle are sort of intermediate.
And you can see standard cars with the little arrow
pointing to the right and turbo cars with the little arrow pointing
to the left.
And you notice, most of the diesel cars are turbo,
and a fair number of gas cars, especially in this price and fuel
economy range, tend to be turbo cars, too.
And then most of these high fuel efficiency,
cheap cars are standard, OK?
So think about a second.
How many dimensions do we actually have on this page now?
It's quite a few.

If you decided that the answer was five, you're
correct, because we have the two axes--
price on the vertical, city miles per gallon on the horizontal.
Then we have color for the type of fuel, the engine uses.
We have marker size for the size of the engine.
And, finally, we have marker shape to tell us
whether it's a standard aspiration car or a turbo car.
So you can see just using a scatterplot, but with three different aesthetics,
we've gone from the ability to project two dimensions to five
dimensions, which is really kind of cool and very useful
in terms of presenting your graphics to your colleagues
or exploring data for yourself.
