[MUSIC PLAYING]

So we've talked about different parts of these models
so we're talking about these ARIMA models.
And we've talked about the autoregressive, the moving average,
the autoregressive moving average.
So what's this I?
So we call it the integrative or integration term.
And so go back and recall, that AR model and MA model are stationary.
And we tend to do those after we've done STL decomposition.

So we wind up with a remainder, which is what we've been modeling,
but what if we have something in the remainder?
Remember, the random walk was xt equals xt minus 1 plus Wt.
We call it a first order random walk because there's just one here.

And this is non-stationary now.

So what do we do about this?
Well, we need to deal with this non-stationary part here.
And we can do this by a difference operator.

And it has an order d--
order d.

And we can simply write that, that the difference operator of the first order
is just xt minus xt minus 1, which is just going to give us then, innovation.
So we convert a random walk--
so this is the random walk.

We convert it to a white noise series by using a difference operator.
And that's what we want in the end.
We want to remove the autoregressive component, the moving
average component, and any random walk.
And we want to end up with a white noise series.
So in the end, we can write an ARIMA model--
and you can do second order, third order, whatever,
but generally, first order--
of p, d, q.
So it's got an AR component of p, an, integrated component order of d,
and a moving average component of q.
So that's it.
So now we've pulled all the parts of an ARIMA model together.
Autoregressive and moving average-- we've talked about.
They're applied to this, and we've removed the non-stationary components
with STL decomposition.
Things like random walk, which might be a first order random walk.
We use a difference operator in this case.
Order d is just one first order difference.
And we wind up with our ARIMA model of order p, d, q.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
