[MUSIC PLAYING]

Hi.
So multi-dimensional plotting visualization
is a very powerful data science technique.
And it's really important before you start spending a lot of time
on doing analysis or building models or anything like that,
you understand the structure in your data.
And generally, your data is not just a simple--
maybe, it's just two variables, but it's probably not.
Our typical dataset might have something like a column that's temperature
and so we've got some numbers, like this.

So that's case one, two.
In this case, case four.
So we've got one--
But then, we might have velocity and that might be something like this.

And we might have a categorical variable that might be something like type.
So maybe, it's--
I don't know what-- type V1, V7, V3, V4--
some type of something that we're measuring here.
And et cetera, et cetera.
We keep filling this screen up here and you
see that our problem becomes there could be 30, 50 of these variables
and we want to understand how they relate to something
we're trying to predict, typically, in data science.

So for example, we might take these two variables and we can do a scatterplot.
We can have temp on one axis and velocity at another.
We could take one of these variables--
like this variable and this variable--
and we could look at, maybe, box plots by or violin plots
or something like that.
By V1, V2, et cetera.
And we go on and on.
So we're creating multiple views of the data, and as we do this,
we don't know which of these views are going to be useful.
We don't know which of these views are going
to give us the aha insight that type totally determines the operating
temperature or something like that, until we really dig into it
and develop that intuition, develop some understanding of how this all
fits together.
And there's a number of issues with if you have high dimensional data--
and that's what we're going to look at in this lesson--

what are some tips and tricks to get visualizations
that are informative to you, as the data scientists trying
to understand the relationships, but also, you
need to present these results, typically, to a broader audience.
To your management, your colleagues, whatever.
And certain things you can show them, certain ways you can show them,
people will understand.
Others are just not that useful.
And so we'll try to, throughout this whole lesson,
give you guidance on this thing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
