
So let's talk about some of the issues we
have when we're trying to visualize a complex dataset
or trying to understand the relationships of a data
set before we model it.
Invariably, we have multiple dimensions in the data set.
So what does that mean?
We have multiple dimensions, but we have a 2D plot surface.
So we're stuck in this certain 2D plane.
OK.
So for example, if I draw a set of axes here, I have two axes, right?
I could try to maybe do some perspective plot with a third dimension,
but I'm pretty much stuck.
Regardless of whether I'm printing on paper or looking at a computer screen,
I am stuck in a 2D world here.
I can't do anything.
And so there's a couple of issues, and we'll
talk about those throughout this lesson, that arise over and over again.
So one of them is simply this business of when
you project a large complex dataset onto 2D,
you get a phenomenon called overplotting.
So say we start getting some points here, and so, so far we're doing OK,
right?
We can see where every little point is, my bad drawing not withstanding.
OK.
But say this dataset had certain areas where there was just a lot of values,
and it starts to become difficult to tell just how many points are there.
One point's right on top of the other.
It's just becomes, essentially, it's just visual blob.
And you can't tell much, and if you ever see this in your plots
when you're exploring a large complex dataset, just blobs like this,
you know that you have to back up and think about what you're doing.
You've got some over plotting going on, OK?
So what to do?
So there's a couple things we can try here.
We can, for example, use contour plots.
So we might wind up with a contour plot like that,
and maybe another one like that, in this case.
And then, you might even get one like this, et cetera.

So with a contour plot like this, now the fact
that we have tremendous amount of over plotting here
starts to become less important, because our eye
is drawn to the area with the high number of contours,
and we know those are very dense areas with a lot of points.
Another possibility though is a hex bin plot.
So we can break this area up into hex size bin.
So this is like the 2D equivalent of a histogram.
We already talked about histograms, right?
So you do something like--
and you can set different bin sizes.

And the reason we use a hexagon is because they, of course, whoops.
If you're good at drawing, which I'm not,
they pack properly in 3D space like this.

And if you color coded these hexagons, you'd
see these four here have a lot of high density.
This one actually has nothing in it.
It's empty.
So if you're shading them, these would be highly shaded.
This one would be essentially unshaded.
So that's another alternative to contour plotting.
It's actually a very scalable method.
You can do millions of points on a scatterplot,
and get something understandable if you use a hex bin plot.
Rather than, if you put millions of points in a normal scatterplot,
you're just going to have a huge blob, and you're not going to know anything.
With a hex bin plot, you'll start to see the high density areas and the low
density , areas and it will give you a lot of information.
So that's a little bit about methods we're going to look at to deal
with this overplotting problem, so we can work with large complex data sets.
