
So we've looked at a number of plot types, now 2D plot types.
We've dealt several methods or explored several methods
for dealing with overplotting problem, which
is a huge problem in large, complex datasets.
But let's go beyond two dimensions.
So everything we've done so far is just two dimensional plots
because we've just had a vertical axis, horizontal axis.
And essentially, we're stuck with it.
We're plotting on a computer screen or printing on paper.
The world is of visualization is stuck in a 2D projection.
But there's things we can do to break out of that.
And let's look at--
I'm going to a little table here of some ways you can get around that.

So here we're going to show the aesthetic,
and over here we're going to talk about which data types it works with.

And first we're going to try size.

So we can certainly use size, size of whatever it is we're plotting,
whether it's a marker or a length or size and length.

We can certainly use that for numeric.

The size could be proportional to some numeric value.
You can also use it with an ordered categorical variable.
So if we had a categorical variable like small, medium, large,
we could use marker sizes small, medium, and large.
We can then look at marker shape, and generally marker shape is really
only good for categorical variables.

So we just simply have a shape that's unique to each category
that we want to show, and finally we have color.

And color can be used for categorical.
So you have a color per category, but if you have a color like a scale--
like dark blue to light blue or something like that or shades of gray--
you can also use it for numeric.

So this gives us a fair number of items we can use.
Oh, and I should say there's area.

And generally, we use that for numeric.

So I did these in a certain order.
It turns out people have done experiments on these aesthetics.
Which ones do humans perceive the best?
It turns out our eyes are really good at telling differences in size and length.
So that's kind of our number one go to.
We're also pretty good at telling shapes apart as long
as they're fairly distinct.
So that's probably our number three.
We're not so great, as it turns out, as telling colors apart.
If they're really very distinct colors, sure.
But some people are colorblind, especially men tend to be--
there's a tendency for a fair number of males to be red green color blind.
But we can still do some stuff with color.
And area-- it turns out we're not so good at perceiving area.
So area's may be best, a very gross estimate.
And these tests I was talking about-- for example, one of the famous ones
was done by William Cleveland at Bell Labs,
and he actually took other Bell Labs scientists,
guys who look at plots all day and had them test how well they
perceived differences in plots.
And so, this wasn't just like taking some random bunch of people
from who knows where.
And so this was his ranking he came up with.
Other people have done similar things.
And so, this has been made a little more systematic over time.
So let's talk about what we can do here.
So with length, the obvious plot that you do with length--
for example, we can do a bar plot.
And typically you want to order your bar plot so that--
it can be from biggest to smallest or smallest to biggest.
But you want to do that because, I get this one.
And it's pretty clear those two bars are quite different, whatever they are.
But then what if I get a bunch like this which are just only slightly different?
If they were all over the chart, I wouldn't be able to tell that.
But by ordering them, I can tell, well, that one
is a little bigger than that one, a little bigger than that one.
So that's an example of using length.
Another example of using length might be if I
have some variable which has a lot of categories, and then I have a numeric.
This way I can create a whole bunch of box plots like this.

And I'm able to tell, because my eye is sensitive to length,
I'm able to tell quite a bit about the differences in dispersion
and what of those variables.
So that's something to keep in mind when you have--
again, this could be a way to get around overplotting
if you have a categorical variable with a lot of cat--
even not so many categories, but it works
with a huge number of categories in a numeric variable
and you want to plot some relationship there.

So then, moving on, we can talk about marker shape.
So one of the tricks about marker shape that various people have
researched and come up with is, you want to make sure you pick distinct markers.
Like I could do something like this.
Maybe I have a circle, a triangle for some of my data points,
and maybe a square.
So I can pretty well tell, by markers shape here,
that those are three distinct categorical variables
and maybe these are two you know numeric variables.
So now I've got three dimensions on this plot.
I could also do things like--
for the same, I could do letters.
You could do letters and numbers.
But what you want to do is things that look different.
Those don't look like each other.
But don't do a and b.
Don't do, or h and b.
don't do o and q because this people aren't going to see those differences.
So be sensible.
And also when you're doing like shapes, you
can see we're pretty quickly going to run out of how many shapes
our mind can wrap around.
If you have 20 categories and all kinds of little subtle differences in shapes,
people aren't going to understand your plots.
You may not understand your plots, even if you use letters or numbers.

So let's move on here then to color.
So I'll put my axes here.

So again, you can't use too many colors.
Maybe I'll use green.

And then I can come along and I can use yellow.
But you see already, my yellow and my green, boy, that looks pretty similar.
Am I really going to tell the difference?
Certainly blue looks different.

And maybe orange looks-- yeah, orange looks a little different.
But again, it's not that different from the yellow, is it?
So again, the point is make sure you pick distinctive colors.
Don't use too many colors.
Don't use too many shapes, or you're going to wind up with a mess
that nobody understands.
And finally, a little bit about area.
The problem with area is, as I've already alluded to,
if I have a shape or a marker like that and a marker that's
just a little bit bigger and a marker that's maybe right in between,
I mean, it's very hard to tell what the differences.
I need differences that are like that where
I can really see a big difference.
So if you're trying to do something that's just general relative ordering,
area is a great way to do it.
But don't expect to get the same kind of granularity
you can get with, say, length.
That's why I put size and length up here as my first go
to aesthetic, shape as my next one, color, and finally area.
So that's an overview of some tools we can use to project five,
six, even seven dimensions sometimes onto our 2D surfaces.
