[MUSIC PLAYING]

So now we're going to talk about an important topic in hypothesis testing,
which is the test power.
Why do we care about the test power?
So power of a test equals the probability
that we reject H0, given that HA is true.

So basically it's the probability that we detect--
so equals probability that we detect--

we call it detect the effect, the effect we're looking for.

That we get a positive test, the alternative hypothesis.
So that's test power.
And how do we visualize that?
So let's draw a little sketch here and you can see.
So say I have one distribution that's like this,
and I have another distribution that's like that.
And there's a crossover point here, so below this--
so if my result is out in this region, I reject H0.
Over here, I accept.

So my probability to reject H0 is this whole--
whatever the probability of this whole region out here.
So that's my power.
So this is power.
But I can make this type II error-- my probability of a type II error--

well, actually we do that with Roman numerals.

So that's my probability that I accept and H0, even though the HA is true.

Actually, I should say--
we should say that.
Make sure you guys understand it's a conditional probability.

So that's type II error.
OK.
So what does this depend--
so it's actually hard to compute this.
It's not like the test statistics we've been dealing with,
like the T-statistic where there's analytical results that
have been worked on since the early 20th century basically.
So generally do it by some kind of simulation or route finding exercise.
Fortunately, we have fast computers.
Our laptops nowadays even can do this, so it's a good idea to test it.
And it depends on fourth things besides the test you pick.
So it's the number of samples.

So if you have a small effect that you're looking for,
obviously having a bigger sample gives you a better chance of finding it.
That kind of makes sense, right?
You have the different-- the effect size.

So if it's a difference in means, how big do you expect that to be?
If it's number of clicks to the old website versus the new web site,
how much better do you expect the new website to be?
So you might have to try various values of that.
It depends on the significance level, a.k.a. the cutoff.

If you're willing to accept 80%, then maybe
you don't need such a big sample or effect size.
If you want to only accept 99.999%, you're
going to need a bigger sample and maybe a bigger effect size.
But you're going to need that.
And, of course, it totally depends on the type of test.

And as I've said, the more restrictive assumptions usually equals more power.

That's just an unfortunate fact of life.
If you want a very generalized test, you have
to accept lower power, a lower chance that you're
going to reject H0 when HA is true.
So that's the concept of power.
It's an important thing to think about, especially
when you're designing an experiment to collect data,
like if you're going to do an A/B test, like how many customers do you want?
How big a sample size should you collect given
that you're expecting a certain effect size
and you'll need a certain significance level, things like that,
and you're going to use certain T-tests, like Welch's T-test or something
like that.
So you want to simulate that and understand
whether your sample is sufficient.
So there's a lot of uses of power, and it's really
something good to think about when you're designing
an experiment for collecting data.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
