[INTRO MUSIC PLAYING]

So we've introduced discrete probability,
and we did a little bit of work with it, but there's three axioms of probability
that really you should always keep in mind,
because if you're doing something, or somebody tells you
something, that violates any of these axioms, you know it's wrong.
And you'd be surprised how often this comes out.

OK, so the first one--

the first one is that for any set of events, A,
the probability has to be between 0 and 1.
We can't have negative probabilities--
we can have 0 probabilities.
We can have events that just can't possibly
happen, we can have events that are absolutely certain to happen,
which have a probability of 1, and we can have events with anywhere
in between 0 and 1, but they can't be out of that range.
So that's absolutely the case.
The other thing is we have to--
if we have a set of events, that's our whole sample space,
which we're going to call S. So if we sum over all possible events--
let's call that A sub I --in this sample space--
so the events must be in the sample space,
so it's the complete sample space.
So the probability has to add up to 1.
So probabilities always sum to 1.
If you're dealing with continuous distributions, they integrate to 1,
but in this case we're just talking about summing
probabilities-- discrete events --to 1.
Because something has to happen, even if it's a nothing--
even if nothing is one of the possibilities in this probability space
that we're sampling.
Nothing could happen, or other things could happen.
But whatever it is that can happen, the probability that something happens,
or nothing, being part of the sample space, has to be 1.
And finally there's this business of independence.
So our third axiom probability is that if we look at the union of A and B,
if it happens to equal the probability of A plus the probability of B,
that can happen if and only if--
in mathematics we use IIF for if and only if --the intersection of A and B
is a null set or an empty set.
So if you have independent events A and B,
you can compute their probabilities just by the probability
of A plus the probability of B, but that only happens if they're independent.
And if they're independent, the intersection of A and B
has to be a null or empty set.
So that's it, our three axioms of probability, not too much to remember.
They have to be on the interval from 0 to 1.
All of the events in whatever sample space have to add up to 1.
And if you have independent events-- that
is, no intersection between them --the probability of A with the union of B
is just the probability of A plus the probability of B.
That's all there is to it.
[OUTRO MUSIC PLAYING]
