[MUSIC PLAYING]

Hi.
So up till now in this lesson, we've focused on two dimensional plots.
We have either looked at scatter plots or some other effectively
two dimensional plots, like hexbin plots, heat map, line plot.
And we've added only one aesthetic to it,
which is we looked at using transparency to deal with over plotting.
But there are other aesthetics we can apply.
And they're interesting aesthetics, because they
let us project additional dimensions.
Notice that all the data sets we've looked at up till now are all--
the views of this current data set we've looked up
till now have been two dimensional.
And, for example, when we looked at line plot,
it was just number of sunspots versus date-- just two dimensions.
And this is a real problem in graphics, because we're always
looking at graphics.
Regardless of whether they're printed on paper or on our computer screen,
it's a two dimensional view of a very complex,
typically multi-dimensional world.
So let's talk about some specific aesthetics
we can use so that we can project more dimensions onto our 2D screens.
So there are really three aesthetics we're
going to discuss in these next few sequences,
and there are different ways you can use them.
So for example, color--
you can use color for a categorical variable, and we'll look at that.
You see different categories of data.
Size-- so size of the marker.
We can use that directly as a numeric indicator,
like how big is the marker indicates some proportion to the numeric value.
Or if you have an ordered categorical variable, like, say, small, medium,
large or something like that where order actually matters in the categories,
then you can use a few different marker size.
There's also marker shape.
We've just been using dots for our scatter plots up till now,
but we could use squares, and triangles, and plus signs, and even
alphanumeric characters like the letter H or the letter B or something
like that.
And again, we can use those to project a categorical variable onto our two
dimensional surface.
I'll talk about this a bit as we go, but really, notice this warning.
If you use too many colors, too many shapes, too many fine grain differences
in size, you wind up with a mess.
And you wind up obfuscating what you're trying to show
rather than illuminating it.
And so don't go overboard with these aesthetics in terms
of projecting additional dimensions.
Sometimes you may have to aggregate categories
or really think about what you're trying to project.
So with that background in mind, let's go ahead and one by one,
we'll go through those three types of aesthetics.
And I'll show you how we can use them to project additional dimensions.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
