[MUSIC PLAYING]

Let's talk about how we can compute and look at the properties of random walk.
So recall, a random walk has an innovation
and so we jump whichever way the random innovation-- the innovation is random,
but we jump whichever way it goes.
So we essentially, zig and zag in some way.
And on my screen here, I have some code to generate a random walk
and we're going to plot the random walk.
So we can define a random walk just from 1990 to 2015.
We're going to use monthly data this time.
We're going to give it a standard deviation of one.
A mean of zero.
So we get dates as the PD.
Date range, start/end frequency.
And we're going to generate a series of the normals so whatever mean
and scale and size is the length of the date series we created here.
And then, what we're going to return is the cumulative sum of those.
So that's why I said, we jump whichever way the innovation takes us.
So this is where we compute our innovations.
And the random walk is the cumulative sum of those innovations.
And so we're just going to create walk and we're
going to plot that time series.
And when we look at this, we see--
in this particular case--
our time series is just wandering off toward a very negative number.
And you can imagine, the variance is changing.
It's getting larger and larger as this random walk wanders,
but the random walk could wander up and down or whatever.
But regardless of how it wanders, we're going
to wind up with increasing variance, which
is as the time series grows to infinite length, is going to become infinity.
So this is not a stationary process.
Random walks are not stationary.
And they have this property that they just wander off, one way or the other.
So that's just a simple way we could generate
a random walk using the cumulative distribution of a set of innovations.
And we saw-- very visually-- that because the random walk really
is a random walk, there's no bound on the variance
and therefore, it is not a stationary process.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
