[MUSIC PLAYING]

So we've talked about two really fundamental properties of time series.
We've talked about white noise and we've talked about autocorrelation
and partial autocorrelation.
And it should be clear to you that, a white noise series has,
except for lag zero, it'll have autocorrelation of zero everywhere.
So for white noise, sigma zero equals which is axiomatic--
that's true of any time series.
And sigma k not equal to zero should be approximately, but not exactly, zero
because each value is not correlated with any other.
And remember, we said that we could write the Xi's--
we model them as a normal distribution, zero sigma.
And sigma didn't change with time series index or anything else.
So this is what we call stationary.

But what other kinds of time series could there be?
Just fundamental time series?
Well, the next one we're going to talk about here is a random walk.

And so what is the property of a random walk?
Xi equals Xi minus 1 plus some W sub i and we call w sub i is the innovation.

And we model that innovation as--
for example-- a normal distribution, zero sigma.
So the innovation now is modeled, rather than the value itself.
So what does it do?
It means, basically, that we're kicking--
imagine a value and we give it a kick, which
is a random kick up or down whatever the value of the next random draw we
do from this normal distribution is.
And so that gives us this random walk and you'll see this in the demo,
but they tend to wander off and do funny things like this.
And lots of real world processes are random walk.
For example, prices of securities-- like stocks--
are random walks and so that's why we care about them.
And you can write this in another way.
You can say that the innovation equals the last value minus the current value.
And in finance, at least, we call that the return.
But there's a really fundamental issue with this
which is, that if you look at the covariance, it's t times sigma.

It's a function of time.
And it violates this assumption that this is stationary
and so, therefore, we say this is non-stationary.

And in fact, as t goes to infinity, the covariance goes to infinity.
So not only is it non-stationary, it has unbounded variance with time
because these can just wander off because it's just adding this kick--
this innovation from usually, a normal distribution is how we model it,
but you could do other things--
over time.
So that's the key point.
The difference between white noise and a random walk
is, white noise is just a random draw.
It's independent.
It's stationary.
The random walk has this innovation.
And it depends on the last value so it's the last value plus the innovation.
And so it wanders and it has this rather odd property--
when you first think about it--
that the covariance varies with time and it's actually, unbounded.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
