
[MUSIC PLAYING]

So we're going to make our first bivariate plot here,
which is the most simple, basic kind of bivariate plot.
I'm sure you've seen lots of them.
Maybe you've created lots of them.
It's a scatter plot.
And the idea of a scatter plot is you have two numeric variables
and you want to see the relationship between them.
So you put one on the horizontal, or x-axis, and the other on the vertical,
or y-axis.
So let's just see how that's done using some of the plotting tools we
have available to us in pandas.
We're going to have some code here.
The first thing, just remember because we're--
pandas plotting is based on matplotlib.
And we want to display our plots in line.
So we need to give this magic command, which is--
the percent sign says it's a magic command, matplotlib, and then in line.
So we'll display our plot in line.
And we're going to import matplotlib.pyplot as plot, P-L-T.
And we're going to create an axis.
And we're going to make the figure size 6 by 6.

GCA is a method to create an axis.
OK.
So just a single axis.
So this is a way to concatenate all that onto one line to create the axis.
And first, let me go back.
We need to import our auto data set.
So now we have a data frame called auto price.
And we are going to take that and we're going to do .plot.scatter.
So it says we're going to do a scatter plot.
And I'm going to put x.
I'm going to put city miles per gallon on my x-axis and price
on my y or vertical axis.
I'm going to put it on that axis.
And we need to label this plot because it's a useless plot without labels.
So we're going to give it a title, auto price versus city MPG.
We're going to say what our y- and x-axis are, the auto price,
and the city MPG.
OK.
And let's just run that.
And you'll see what the result is.
And it's not too surprising.
Here's our title, auto price versus city MPG.
Here we've got city, MPG, and auto price.
OK, the labels, horizontal and vertical.
And you see the numeric ticks.
OK.
So we can start looking at this.
You see we've got some very expensive cars
up in this corner that are all pretty much gas guzzlers or fuel guzzlers.
Remember, there's two types of fuel here.
So we don't know about that.
We have some clusters of cars.
There seem to be areas where maybe it's because auto manufacturers compete
with each other.
They tend to make cars that are similar.
We have a few cars that have remarkably high fuel
efficiency and pretty low price.
So somehow, those cars--
and there's only three of them it looks like.
They're somehow different from all the other cars.
You see they sort of stand out by themselves.
So we've learned some things here.
We've learned that there seem to be these expensive fuel guzzlers.
There seem to be these lower cost, extremely fuel-efficient cars.
And there's a couple of clusters or clumps
of cars in certain mile per gallon and price ranges.
But there is a problem here.
And we'll talk about this in a minute.
Notice how there is what we call "over-plotting."
And that just means there's a lot of dots, say, in an area like this.
We can't really tell how many dots there are.
So that's just the basics of making a scatter plot with our Python tools.
In this case, we use pandas plotting.
We used some matplotlib calls to put proper labels on the axis.
We learned a bit about miles per gallon of cars versus their price.
And we also saw this problem of over-plotting.
