[MUSIC PLAYING]

So we've looked at white noise.
We've looked at random walk.
We've looked at what happens when we have trend time series.
What happens when we add a seasonal component to a time series?
A seasonal component is a periodic variation
in the time series that can have-- it doesn't just have
to be seasons of the year, of course.
So it could be months.
It could be days.
It could be days of the week.
Or even, on the scale in nanoseconds, depending on the time series
we're dealing with.
So let's see how that changes the properties of time series.
So from math, I'm importing the constant pi here and you'll see why in a minute.
And I've created a function called seasonal_ts.
And again, we're going to go from January 1990 to January of 2015,
by months.
There's a slope parameter here, which we're going
to use so we're going to have a slope.
We're going to have a standard deviation of one and a mean zero for the noise.
And we're going to add a seasonal component
so this is very similar to what I did in the last demonstration.
But in this case, again, we just create the series with the constant slope.
We add white noise to the series.
You see, the normal so this is our independent identically
distributed normal white noise.
Now we add a seasonal component.
And this is where pi comes in so we've got
a periodicity that makes sense here.
And you'll see how that works when we plot this.
And again, we just do that as a list comprehension.
And I've added a half to that, just to bias the whole series up
a little bit so we don't have any negative values.
And that'll help us later in the lesson.
So let's go ahead and generate that and look at the result.
And now we have something different.
Remember before, our white noise plus trend looked like this.

Now we have something that looks like this.
So you can see, there's a periodic behavior, but there's also,
a white noise component on top of that and the trend.
So again, when you look at this and you ask yourself, is this stationary?
Is this a stationary time series?
And again, we have to answer, no.
First off, we have the trend which we know,
but even if we didn't have the trend, the fact that--
depending on where we took our samples to compute variance--
there's this change in values with the seasonality,
with the periodicity also indicates that we
would have variance that wasn't constant and hence, non-stationarity.
So that's a trend, white noise, and seasonal component in a time series.
And this is very typical in real world, that you get those kind of time series.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
