[MUSIC PLAYING]

Now to start, we will go through an example using stepwise regression
using the Galton family height data.
You can find more information about the Galton height data at this URL here.
The goal of our modeling is to predict the height
of an adult, given information on the height of their parents.
As a first step, we will create a data set for just the adult male children.
The code in the cell below, first subsets the data
to just the male population.
Then we compute two new features, each heights of the parent squared.
We will also scale all the features, including
the square of the parents' heights.
In regularized regression it is important to scale
the independent features, and sometimes even the dependent y target variable
as well.
We will talk more about this in the individual regularization sections,
but be aware that we will perform the normal scaling
method by subtracting the mean and dividing by the standard deviation.
For the code, remember we want to import the libraries that we will use.
And we will load our data here in the first part.
We will create the height data here, subset for the male and female data
for later on usage.
Here, we add the square of the mother and father heights
and label the data for plotting purposes,
and stick that in a data frame.
If we look at the head of the data frame,
here is the columns that we've created.
Now that we have loaded our data, we want
to perform regular linear regression for comparison to other models.
First, we will also scale the data.
So here is everything but the dependent data scale.

Now less computer model with all the features.
And here's the output for that.

We compute the model.
If we look at the coefficients for all of them,
we can see that there are a lot of coefficients
that are failing the t-test for significance,
which means that there is probably a lot of dependents going on here.
If we look, it is important to note the AIC values here.
So the AIC values here, for this model is 2101.
And we will see if we can use stepwise regression to reduce that.
So this is with all of the features.
It is clear from the summary here that this model is over parametrized,
only the intercept is significant.
In other words, we are computing the average value of the child heights
feature, but nothing more.
Examination of the residual plots shows them
to be mostly well-behaved with a bit of curvature
in the standardized residual plot.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
