[MUSIC PLAYING]

So in the previous sequence, we loaded some time series data,
long-term series, for the production of chocolate, beer, and electricity
in the nation of Australia.
We determined that the electric production was probably
a better modeled as the log of the values
because it made the seasonal component look more uniform over time.
So let's go ahead and try to decompose that electric time series--
the log of that electric time series into its seasonal trend
and residual components.
And we'll do some examination of the properties of that residual component
to see how we did.

So not too surprisingly, we're going to use the function we set up earlier--
decomp_ts.
And we're going to do that on the log of electricity production.
And we'll just print the head and the tail of that time series.
And recall, again, because it's monthly time series,
the first six lag values of residual and trend are going to be not known number.
They're just not there.
But we do get the seasonal component.
And similar for the last six lag values so just keep that in mind
when we're modeling.
So here's our log of electric production.
Here's the trend of the electric production-- looks pretty good.
Looks like we nailed it.
Here's the seasonal component.
You can see, it's a fairly strong signal.
It's from about 0.15--
remember, it's on a log scale-- to minus 0.15.
And then we've got what looks like a fairly constant variance term here,
but I think there is some funniness going on at the end here.
You see how this starts to look more seasonal toward the end,
less like white noise?

But it looks like generally, this simple STL decomposition
gave us the idea that we have a trend that we can model fairly well.
It's pretty close to linear.
We have a seasonal component that looks pretty repeatable.
And the residual we have left from that isn't too terribly bad.
So we can apply a formal test here now, to determine
how stationary that residual is, if you'd like.
And we're going to use something called the Dickey-Fuller test or more
specifically, we're using an adjusted Dickey-Fuller test, which we
can find in statsmodels.tsa.statstools.
So we're going to import add AD Fuller.
And so we get a whole list of statistics out of this test
and you can look at the documentation for it,
if you want to see what everything is.
And I'm just going to print certain ones of them.
And we'll go ahead and look at that.
So the null hypothesis for a Dickey-Fuller test
is that the time series is not stationary.
But you see, we have a pretty large magnitude
of the Dickey-Fuller statistic, almost eight or minus eight.
The p-value was really tiny so we can probably reject that null hypothesis,
that the time series is not stationary.
We're doing this by looking at sets of 16 lags, where
we check how much the variance changes.
So we get different cutoffs at 5% and 10%,
but look at how big that Dickey-Fuller statistic is for this 5% and 10%
cut-off.
So I don't think we have any problem in saying
that the residual time series is, for all practical purposes, stationary.
So one last thing we can do just while we're
looking at this simple the composition, is the autocorrelation function
and the partial autocorrelation function.
Let's just look at those properties.
And again, we're eliminating the first six
and last six values of the residual.
And our partial autocorrelation function.
So there's a couple of things going on here.
We may have one significant non-zero lag here.
We also see some sign of that periodicity we saw,
that hadn't quite been eliminated.
And again, our autocorrelation has one significant non-zero lag.
And maybe some evidence here of--
notice that's lag six so it's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5--
so it's about six from zero.
And likewise, up here,
So we haven't quite nailed the periodicity or the seasonality,
but pretty much, we have.
So it looks like maybe, we're shooting for something like an ARMA model
that's AR1 MA1, kind of model.
But we'll continue and we'll keep working on this.
So the upshot is, the decomposition looked pretty good
in terms of being able to remove a linear trend to pretty
close to straight line trend.
We had a fairly constant seasonal component.
And a residual is stationary, but it's a little funny
so we'll have to keep working on that as we want to make good forecasts.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
