[MUSIC PLAYING]

So we've talked about some basic properties of time series
and looked at different combinations of white noise series and random walk
series and what their autocorrelation and partial autocorrelation
properties are.
So now, let's look at some more complex time series.
And basically, what we're going to look at is a model called, the STL model.
And it stands for seasonal trend--

and the L, you'd never guess--
is basically, the remainder.
Historical reasons why it's L.
So what are some examples?
So trend in the real world, we can have trends where-- for example--
if you're doing macroeconomics, gross domestic product
tends to increase dramatically over time.
If you look at the gross domestic product of the United States
over the last 200 years, it's a curve with a very strong trend.
It may not be a linear trend.
It might have a second or even a third order component to it,
but it is a strong trend.
And you can't model that time series without a trend.
Then we have this seasonal component and this is the one that's maybe,
a little more mysterious.
So for example, think about unemployment numbers
that the US Commerce Department releases.
They, so-call, seasonally adjust those and the reason
is, they know that there are certain kinds of employment that
are dependent on seasons.
For example, construction employment-- maybe in really bad weather times
like the winter, it might be lower.
There might be a lot more activity in the summer.
Employment in retail is seasonal.
For example, there's a holiday season when
people are more in a buying mood, that tends to be seasonal.
You can have other seasonal effects.
In capital markets, you have option expiration dates where you get,
sometimes, funny jumps in stock prices or something
like that because people are covering positions.
You can have things like special days, like if you looked at beer sales
in the United States, you'd probably see spikes
around Super Bowl Sunday, the 4th of July, Memorial Day-- times
when people get together with their friends and drink more beer.

So there's a lot of possible seasonal effects
that we need to model so we use this STL model to do that.
And it's actually, a really simple model.
So there's two versions of it.
We have an additive model and we just say that the STL of the time series
is the seasonal plus the trend plus the remainder.
That's it.
We just decompose it linearly into three components.
And we hope that the sum of those three components
adds up to the whole time series.
So if we had a time series that looks like this, we have a trend component,
and then you can see, there's a seasonal component-- well,
it's a little cockeyed, but anyway.
So that's a simple model.
But the other model is what we call multiplicative.

In that case, we say that STL equals S of t times T of t times R of t.
And why would we have a model like that?
Well, think about total employment in a country like the United States.
If you plotted over a long time, our economy is growing on average--
and I'm not going to worry about recessions and all that--
so you might see something like this, where there's a seasonal component.
And that seasonal component is getting bigger--
I'm exaggerating this-- as the trend--
you see, total employment-- the average is going up.
And so the seasonal component.
So there's a multiplicative effect between, say,
trend, value, and seasonal value.
So how do we deal with that?
Well, it's very hard to model this so what we do
is we actually do the log of our STL time series
and then that gives us an additive model, which is just a linear model
and we know how to deal with linear models really well.
So that's a simple transformation that gets us from something-- so
whenever you see a time series with the seasonal component increasing
with time, think multiplicative model and think log transform.
So that's all there is to it.
You just decompose your time series into three components--

seasonal, trend, remainder.
And you can have an additive model, which just adds them up.
It's just a linear model.
Or a multiplicative model, which we transform to an additive model
through a log transformation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
