
[MUSIC PLAYING]

OK.
So we've made it to the end of the lesson.
And let's go back and just summarize what we've done here.
So we've looked at various exploratory data analysis methods.
We looked at some summary statistics.
So we looked at summary statistics for continuous variables
like the mean, the median, the quartiles, the min, the max,
and we looked at how that helps us interpret
behavior of various variables.
We also looked at a way to summarize categorical data.
We looked at frequency tables.
And we looked at frequency tables that had one, two, and even three variables
that we performed the group by of.
We also then spent most of this lesson on visualization.
We did just one univariate visualization in general.
And we used matplotlib.
We used pandas plotting.
Sometimes we used matplotlib methods to enhance the pandas plot.
And we use Seaborn package, a statistical charting package.
And, again, we used matplotlib methods to enhance Seaborn plots.
And what we looked at was bar plots, which
was a way to graphically represent a frequency table.
We looked at histograms, kernel density plots, violin plots, box plots as ways
to look at numeric variables.
And with the box plot and the violin plot,
we could group the plots by some value of a categorical variable.
So we could compare how the numeric variable changed
when it was grouped by some category.
And we also looked at how we understood now that pandas plotting
and Seaborn are based on matplotlib.
So we looked at how we could mix matplotlib calls with calls
from either those packages to create charts that are properly annotated.
By properly annotated, I mean, at least they have a title,
an x-axis label, a y-axis label.
You always want to have charts that at least have that.
So we didn't look at that, but you could also add legends and other color
attributes-- things like that--
to your plot using matplotlib calls.
So I hope you find exploratory data analysis challenging.
I'm sure you will.
But I hope you find it interesting and engaging the way I do because it really
is a lot of fun to dig through data and find interesting things
about it using these methods.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
