
[MUSIC PLAYING]

So one of our useful, simple methods for exploring new data
is simply to compute and examine some summary statistics.
So imagine I have--
say, I'll just draw some axes here.
OK.
And I have some data with some distribution that might look like that.

And I want to know how do I characterize something like this?
OK.
So a simple first thing I can do is I might say, what's the median?
What's the median of these data?
So if I put the median on here, half these values--
if this is a discrete sample, half the values will be over this way.
The other half will be that way.
So it just defines the median.

That's also the 50% quartile.
So I can also draw some other quartiles on here.
I can say, you know, maybe this one here is
the 25% quartile, which means that 25% of my samples
are this way and 75% that way.
Then I can also put maybe another quartile on here
which might be somewhere here.
And that might be my 75% quartile, which again, 75% of the values
are that way and 25% of the values of that way.
So that's basically some order statistics.
So I've got a median, which is in the midpoint, half the values above,
half the value is below.
I have a 25% quartile and a 75% quartile.
All right.
And I can learn things like, in this case,
I can tell this is a skewed distribution because my median is
closer to the 25% quartile than the 75% quartile.
You see these distances aren't even.
This one is smaller than over here.
OK.
So another statistic I could compute for this case might be the mean.

And the mean is simply 1 over n, the sum of all these values--
so just sum over x.
Right?
Whoops.
Not a very good n.
Sorry.
So one over n, the sum of the values.
So that's just the sample mean, which we call sometimes mu bar or x bar.
So we use different notation for that.
And again, I can tell that this is a skewed
distribution because my mean and my median, there's a bit of a gap here.
If this was a perfectly symmetric distribution, the mean and the median
would be essentially the same.
But there's a little gap here.
OK.

So we've already looked at one measure of dispersion here
which is the interquartile ranges from here to here and then
between the median and the 25% median and the 75%.
But about the mean, I can also compute another quantity
which is the standard deviation.
And the standard deviation is just 1 over n minus one.
Now it's n minus one because we have already
used up one of our degrees of freedom to compute the mean.
And then it's just the--
so it's going to be the square root of this whole thing--
the x i minus x bar, the mean, squared, and then the whole thing
to the one half.
So that's my standard-- so again, standard deviation
gives me a measure of dispersion.
Interquartile range gives me a measure of dispersion.
So with just these simple summary statistics,
we can characterize quite a lot about how spread out our distribution
is, whether it's symmetric or not, or how asymmetric it is.
There's other summary statistics you can use, of course,
but these are the basic ones.
And you can get a long ways with them.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
