[MUSIC PLAYING]

So having discussed what we mean by summary statistics and a little bit
about their characteristics, let's actually
try an example of applying summary statistics to a data set.
So you have a data set here.
It's a fairly simple data set in some ways,
but it has a fair number of variables in it.
And it describes a set of automobiles.
And so let's load that dataset into a Jupyter notebook,
and we'll create some summary statistics and see what we can learn.
So the first thing we need to do is load this data set.
And I'm just going to tell you a few things about that
just so you see some data munging that has to happen here.
So we can read the dataset with our pandas read dot csv method,
but we have these rows with missing values.
And it turns out the missing value in this dataset
is coded as a question mark.
So we need to be careful about that.
And so we have a list of these columns.
Notice they're all columns that should be numeric.
But because they have this question mark in them,
they actually show up as strings when we're going to read them.
And so we iterate through that list of columns.
And we put a numpy nan in there, not a number.
And we drop na, so we use the pandas drop nas on rows--
that's axis equals zero.
And we're doing that in place.
We don't have to copy that data frame again.
And now these columns are still character columns.
So the last thing we need to do is to numeric that bunch of columns.
I've wrapped that all in a function here.
So let's just run that, and we're going to load the data.
It's not going to be real exciting, but you can see it ran successfully.
So let's just look at a couple characteristics of that data frame.

First off, we can look at its shape.
It has 195 cases.
We've probably lost a few because of the missing values.
In fact, we have.
And we have 26 columns.
And you can see the names of some of those columns,
like make is like the manufacturer of the car.
And you'll see what some of these are as we go.
But you could also see that some are of type object, which
means they're strings basically.
We have floats.
The weight of the car or the curb weight of the car
or the empty weight of the car is given as an integer,
as is engine size and some other characteristics.
And the price-- which is the thing we're actually interested in here.
We're trying to understand what characteristics of these cars
drive the price.
So let's go ahead and run what's called the pandas describe method
on this data frame.
OK, so we're going to compute some summary
statistics using this describe method.
And you'll see what the result is here in a minute.
So you see our columns here.
Notice that there are only the numeric valued columns.
They're either float or integer, like price or compression ratio or stroke.
And there's quite a few of them in this dataset.
So as I said, it's a fairly--
even though it's a fairly small dataset, it's got some complexity.
So the first thing we see is the count, how many of these values were there.
Well, in this case, we've removed missing values.
So they're all 195.
Not too surprising.
So our first summary statistic here is mean, so the mean value
or the average value.
And you can see they're all over the place.
Maybe we'll look at price.
By the way, this data set was from 1985, so the average price of a car
was just around $13,000 in 1985,
We can also see the standard deviation.
So that gives us some idea of the dispersion, you know,
how broad a distribution do these values have in each of these columns.
And for example, for price, we can see it's fairly broad.
8,000 is the standard deviation.
So even with a mean of 13,000, we have a standard deviation of 8,000.
Then we can see the min and the max and the three quartiles, 25%, 50%,
which is the median--
the 50% quartile is the median because half the values are above
and half the values are below--
and 75%.
So we got min, max, median.
And so we can see the cheapest car here is $5,000.
The most expensive car is just over $45,000.
OK.
And then our median car price just over $10,000.
So right away, that tells me something interesting.
First off, I can see that the median is quite a bit less than the mean.
So that tells me that this distribution is quite skewed.
It would have to be skewed because--

and also I can see that the median and the mean
are much closer to the minimum than the maximum.
So I'm expecting a distribution where most cars are fairly low cost,
and yet some cars are very high cost.
And again, you can see that in the other quartiles, like at the 25%.
So 25% of our cars are cheaper than $7,700.
And only 25% of our cars cost more than $16,500.
So we've learned quite a bit just about the price of these cars.
And we could look at other statistics here like length,
or wheelbase, curb weight, et cetera and make
some inferences about how they're distributed,
what's interesting about them.
So another thing you can do when you're getting
started just exploring a data set, which is obviously
the overarching point of this lesson, is we can look at the heads.
Notice I gave it the argument 10 here.
So the head of the dataframe, if I give it this--
the default is five.
But I gave it a value of 10.
So I'm looking at the first 10 rows here.
And so it gives me some more idea of what is in these.
Like make, I can see there's different manufacturer names.
Body style, I see it's like convertible, and hatchback, and sedan, and wagon.
Numbered doors, I see that that's actually has a word.
It could be an integer, but it's actually a word--
2, 4, 2, 4, et cetera.
And fuel type, gas--
I presume there's another type, we'll see that later.
Aspiration, standard or turbo.
And engine, front, rear.
And as you go through this, you get an idea of what is in this data frame.
I also always look at the head and the tail of a data frame.
The reason being that if something's wrong with my data frame,
I often see it in the first few or the last few columns, or excuse me, rows.
And this looks OK.
So it looks like our data is cleaned up, and we
don't have anything to worry about.

So I hope that's giving you some idea about using just simple summary
statistics.
We loaded this data frame.
We looked at some characteristics of the distribution of price.
We learned that there is a wide distribution of price
and that most cars are fairly inexpensive.
And we apparently have a few very expensive cars
going up as high as $45,000.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
