
[MUSIC PLAYING]

Hi.
So we've looked at a number of ways of looking at the distribution
of a numeric variable-- a histogram-- the most common, box plot--
where we saw that we could line them up by some categories--
grouped by some values of a categorical variable.
And that's good for comparisons.
We also looked at a smooth representation,
which is a kernel density plot.
And that had some advantages and disadvantages over the histogram.
But what if we combined the kernel density plot with some of the value
that we got from the box plot, which is that we
could subset it or do a group by the values of a categorical variable.
What we'd end up with is something called the violin plot,
and you'll see when we get to the demo why someone named it that.
It's a fairly new plot type.
Of all these plot types I'm showing you in this lesson,
this one has only been around for maybe 20 years, 10 years.
And some of these others--
the box plot was introduced in the '60s, histogram, probably
in the 19th century, et cetera.
So this is relatively new.
And it's pretty clever.
I like it a lot.
So let's look at a demo.
So here's the code.
Hopefully this is, again, looking fairly familiar.
And, again, I'm going to use Seaborn--
the Seaborn package-- because it has a very nice violin-plot method.
So I'm just setting my plot area, defining my axis, setting that style,
so it's a white grid, and then saying I'm going to make a violin plot.
x is going to be fuel-type.
So remember, fuel-type is actually a categorical variable.
We have gas and diesel.
And y, my vertical axis, is going to be price.
And my data is going to be auto_price.
So Seaborn is smart enough, in this case,
to pluck the right columns that I've named here out of my data frame
that I've given as the data argument.
And then, of course, I have my axis argument,
so I'm plotting everything on the same plot.
And I've got my title and my axis labels.
By the way, and I've said this before, but I'm just going to re-emphasize it.
A plot without a title and axis labels is often completely useless.
You have no idea whether it's cars made in Germany versus cattle
born in Argentina, or something.
You just don't know what you're looking at,
and, surely, your colleagues and bosses will know even less than you.
So I'm just going to run this for you.

And you can see kind of why this is called a violin plot, right?
So, in this case, it's a symmetric display.

Imagine the kernel density plot on this side and the kernel density
plot on that side.

And here's our gas on the left and diesel on the right.
You can also see they very cleverly, in Seaborn, put the box plot in there too.
They've snuck that in.
The dot is the median.
Here's the first quartile, second quartile, the whiskers.
So, in fact, in this case, you can see the lowest value is here
in that it's just an artifact of the span of the kernel density operator
that we're getting values down as low as we are because really that's
the lowest value.
And you can see 1 and 1/2 times the inner quartile range here and there.
Then there's that bump.
Remember there was a bump in the mid '30s?
And we can see that's mostly due to gas cars,
tapering off to our very expensive gas cars here.
So this is a very nice display because it gives us
some advantages of a box plot as well as this kernel-density estimate display.
And, again, you can imagine if we had 20 categories, or something like that,
and we could line them all up.
We would be able to, with our eye, very quickly
make comparisons between the distributions of some variable grouped
by those categories.
So I hope those plots give you some idea of how to produce multiple views.
Basically, in this case, we've just been looking
at multiple views of the price of automobiles using various plots,
and we've derived quite a bit of understanding of how the prices work
and how they break down by gas and diesel cars.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
