[MUSIC PLAYING]

So we've looked at the properties of white noise
where we saw it was stationary.
We saw that it, obviously, was normally distributed values.
It had autocorrelation and partial autocorrelation with only zero
significant lag values because it's stationary.
We also looked at a random walk, which is not stationary.
Let's look at another case which is, if we had a trend
to time series-- and time series typically,
do have trends in the real world.
Long-term economic growth, if you're dealing with econometrics.
Changes in temperature, if you're doing with various experimental data.
Things like that, where there's a trend.
So what happens when we add a trend to time series?
And in this case, we're going to look at white noise series, but with a trend.
So on my screen here, I have some code to generate a time
series with white noise and a trend.
And we're going to do it for a date range from January 1990
to January of 2015.
And we're going to do it as monthly.
We've specified a slope parameter and some parameters for the noise.
Then we generate our date values here, which we use as the index
so we get a time series.
And then the first thing we do is, we just have slope--
which is that slope parameter times x for x
in, basically, the length of the dates, the number of months we have.
And then we add to that, normally distributed noise--
simple enough.
And we're going to plot that.
And so you'll see what this looks like.

And you see that we have, again, fairly random noise around a slope.
Notice, we did white noise before, it sort of stuck around zero,
but this is increasing.
And because it's increasing, you should ask yourself,
could this possibly be a stationary time series?
Give that a minute's thought.
And the answer is no because you can see that this--
say if you computed the variance of this part of the time series
and then, maybe, that part of the time series,
and then that part of the time series, you'd see the variance kept increasing.
So the variance isn't constant with time here or with sample size.
And so, therefore, it is not a stationary time series.
So when you add a trend, there is no stationarity.
And let's go ahead and look at the distributional properties of this.

And we get a somewhat skewed--
it's not that normal now.
Notice how it's skewed to the right--
this curve.
It's not a perfect bell-shaped curve even to begin with.
It's pretty raggedy, but it's definitely skewed.
And you see that skew, that we're starting
to get an S-shape in the quantile quantile plot.
You see how these values deviate off that way.
These values deviate from the straight line off that way.
And so the last thing we should look at is the autocorrelation function
and the partial of autocorrelation function for this.

So let me look at the autocorrelation function, first.
And this is quite diagnostic and this, again, points to non-stationary.
Remember, the blue-shaded area is the 95% confidence interval so as always,
lag zero.
Has a value of 1.
No surprise there.
But look at how slowly this autocorrelation
dies off with lag, all the way out to 40.
And it doesn't become insignificant until maybe, 25 lags.
That's because when we're adding the trend,
each value is dependent on the previous values for quite some range in the time
series because we've got a trend.
And we see a similar thing happen with partial autocorrelation.
Although, it dies off much more quickly, we still
have some significant non-zero lags of the partial autocorrelation
for the same thing.
Both indicating that this is not a stationary time series.
So you can see, when you add trend any, even a white noise
series which is stationary, you wind up with something
that's different properties.
It's no longer stationary.
It's no longer-- even though the noise was normally distributed,
the time series values themselves, are no longer normally distributed.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
