[MUSIC PLAYING]

Hi.
So let's start talking about properties of time series.
What are some of the fundamental properties of time series?
Well, probably, the most fundamental time series
is what we call a white noise time series
and when we say white noise, what we mean is it has a broad spectrum.
The analogy is with white light, which contains every color of light.
So how do we write mathematically, what a white noise time series is?
So we could say that X of t--
that's our time series and it has a time series index, t.
So we could have t, could be one, two, three--
We're talking about discrete time series.
So what does it equal?
It equals X1 plus X2 plus X3 plus dot, dot, dot, plus however many
we want to go all the way out to XN.
So we've got these N values--
that's our time series.
But when we say it's white noise, what we're really saying is,
we're Xi is drawn from--

so Xi is drawn from a normal distribution.
It's a centered normal distribution.
It has some standard deviation.

So the interesting thing to notice about this
is each sample in our time series--
if you think about, maybe, it's like a patient's EKG, where
we're monitoring some heart activity-- each time
sample we take to analyze the noise there is simply,
uncorrelated with every other.
Notice, that sigma doesn't change.
So let's say we're measuring some kind of signal,
like a signal from outer space, that we think might just be purely random.
So the sigma doesn't change, probably, over time.
Or maybe it does-- that may be something we're trying to see.
Is this just a white noise random signal?
So the difference is this is white noise because this doesn't change with time
so this is what we call stationary.

Stationary meaning it doesn't change in time.
An alternative would be, we can have something
like this, where it's some function of Xi minus 1 or something like that.
So it's some function that changes in time.

this is white and this is not.
And we call this non-stationary.

So that's it, that's the concept.
And when you're working with time series models, what you want leftover
is the residual.
The stuff that's left over at the end is a white noise series.
A white noise series has no further information in it
because there's no correlation.
There's no dependency of these values one on another.
And that's the big takeaway message here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
