
Hi, so we're about to do some actual plotting here,
creating some actual visualizations.
And we're going to use Python tools to do that obviously.
But I wanted to lay out for you how these tools relate to each other.
And it's a little confusing if you haven't
worked with Python plotting before because there's
lots of different packages.
They all do-- sometimes they do exactly the same thing.
Sometimes they do different things or slightly different things.
And how do they relate?
Well the first thing to keep in mind is Matplotlib.
Matplotlib dot or sometimes Matplotlib dot pi plot, that's your base graphics
system that we're going to use.
And you can, with a little patience, you can
create any plot you want in Matplotlib-- maybe a lot of patience.
The problem is it's very low level.
It tends to be very granular.
You have a lot of control, but it may take a lot of code even
to do what might be simple things.
So it's good to know.
You need to know certain aspects of Matplotlib,
as you'll see, even to work with other packages.
Another way we're going to create visualizations is with Pandas Plotting.
Pandas is the data frame package you've been working with.
And it has plotting methods, quite a few nice plotting methods.
And they take you a fair distance.
They're very highly-- unlike Matplotlib, which is very low level,
Pandas Plotting is quite abstracted.
So you don't need a lot of code to do a lot.
The disadvantage, though, is that it's not as granular control as Matplotlib.
And you'll see, we're going to mix Pandas Plotting with Matplotlib.
So you can enhance a Pandas plot.
But you can only go so far with those.
And sometimes you have to fall back to Matplotlib.
The other package we're going to work with in this particular lesson
is called Seaborn.
And Seaborn is a relatively new statistical graphics
package that's really powerful.
It's very highly abstract.
It's pretty high level.
So you can create some pretty complicated plot types
without a lot of code using Seaborn.
And again you can always fall back to Matplotlib.
It's based on Matplotlib just like Pandas Plotting.
So you can use Matplotlib functions to say add axis labels or titles or change
plot areas and things like that.
So Pandas Plotting and Seaborn are both based on Matplotlib.
That's the thing you need to keep in mind.
And there's lots of other Python graphics packages
that we don't have time to go into this lesson.
But you may, as you go-- on for example there's a ggplot2--
there's a ggpot package based on the R ggplot2 package that's
still in development.
But it's really interesting.
There's something called Plotly or Boracay, which
give you highly interactive graphics.
They're based on a different set of base graphics.
So there's lots of ways you can plot in Python.
But we're just going to stick to Matplotlib
and two packages built on Matplotlib, Pandas Plotting and Seaborn.
